http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/1.5-million-grant-to-help-sophomores-gain-research-experience,-mentoring-in-statistics.html
<Content> $1.5 million grant to help sophomores gain research experience, mentoring in Statistics
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. —A new Purdue University program connecting academics, research, professional development and residential life is designed to help statistics students overcome the "sophomore slump.
" The new program, funded by a $1.5 million National Science Foundation grant, will create a learning community in which participating students live together, dine with faculty, attend scientific meetings, take new courses as a group, and participate in a full-year research project.
 The sophomore year is often called the "sophomore slump" because of a smaller number of sophomore-specific programs, and because of attrition among science students after the first year of study, said Mark Daniel Ward, the associate professor of statistics who leads the program.
 "We lavish a lot of resources on first-year students to help them get their footing, and juniors and seniors usually are part of a research team with a faculty mentor, but sophomores are out there on their own," Ward said.
 "The sophomore year is one of transition, when students are preparing to make important decisions about their academic path. We want to give them a rich experience from which to make these decisions - and to offer them support - so they are successful in whatever path they choose.
" "It is uncommon for a sophomore to participate in research, especially for a full year, but we want to change that," Ward said.
 "We want students to know they don't have to know it all or be an expert before joining a research team. They can jump right in and learn as they go.
 Purdue students are enthusiastic and capable, and we want to create a culture and climate that is really supportive of undergraduate research.
" In addition to Ward, members of the grant-winning team are professors of statistics Rebecca Doerge, Jun Xie, Hao Zhang and Lingsong Zhang, who will help lead the program, and professors Guang Cheng, Sharon Christ, Hyonho Chun, Bruce Craig, Frederi Viens and Xiao Wang.
 A $9400/year stipend will be given to participating students, so that they may focus on their academics and research experience, he said.
 The grant provides funding for 20 students each year, beginning in the fall of 2014, and spans five years. The program is open to students in any major, but is focused on statistics and would likely involve those from other areas adding a statistics major, Ward said.
 "We want to get students comfortable with large data sets and visualization tools earlier," Ward said. "The 'big data' problem is only going to become more important as time goes by.
 The way we teach statistics and data analysis is rapidly evolving." The size of Purdue's undergraduate program in the Department of Statistics
 has more than doubled in the last five years (an increase from 200 to more than 400 students), and employment opportunities in the field continue to increase, Ward said.
 "Everybody has data, and companies need people well-suited to analyze it," he said. "Statistics has applications in almost every field.
 This program will represent that breadth, because faculty in other departments are collaborating with us, providing both data sets and mentoring in applied research opportunities.
 I think it will be eye opening for the students to see how statistics affects other fields and can be applied to real-world problems.
" The learning community will be a part of the Learning Community Program within Student Success at Purdue. Participating students will live together in a residence hall, so that they may connect with their peers and discuss research in an encouraging team-oriented climate, Ward said.
 Students also will dine with their professors as part of a faculty fellow program. The program also will offer professional development opportunities for increased mentoring, especially for women, underrepresented minorities, and persons with disabilities.
 "Purdue Statistics has a consulting program for graduate students, that many departments across the country have recreated," he said.
 "I would love for this sophomore undergraduate experience to become a nationwide model for how we train students at the sophomore level.
" Partners in the program include the College of Science, College of Engineering, College of Health and Human Sciences, and the Honors College; the Regenstrief Center for Healthcare Engineering; Discovery Learning Research Center; Office of the Dean of Students; Housing and Food Services; Information Technology at Purdue; Libraries; the Purdue Chapter of the Society for Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science (SACNAS); and Student Success in the Office of the Provost.
 Student activities have been planned in connection with Duke University, the University of California, Los Angeles, and Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology.
 A link for students to apply for this research opportunity will be posted on the project's website, http://www.stat.purdue.edu/llc
; for more information, send email to llc@stat.purdue.edu.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/1.5-million-grant-to-help-sophomores-gain-research-experience,-mentoring-in-statistics.html
<Content> $1.5 million grant to help sophomores gain research experience, mentoring in Statistics
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. —A new Purdue University program connecting academics, research, professional development and residential life is designed to help statistics students overcome the "sophomore slump.
" The new program, funded by a $1.5 million National Science Foundation grant, will create a learning community in which participating students live together, dine with faculty, attend scientific meetings, take new courses as a group, and participate in a full-year research project.
 The sophomore year is often called the "sophomore slump" because of a smaller number of sophomore-specific programs, and because of attrition among science students after the first year of study, said Mark Daniel Ward, the associate professor of statistics who leads the program.
 "We lavish a lot of resources on first-year students to help them get their footing, and juniors and seniors usually are part of a research team with a faculty mentor, but sophomores are out there on their own," Ward said.
 "The sophomore year is one of transition, when students are preparing to make important decisions about their academic path. We want to give them a rich experience from which to make these decisions - and to offer them support - so they are successful in whatever path they choose.
" "It is uncommon for a sophomore to participate in research, especially for a full year, but we want to change that," Ward said.
 "We want students to know they don't have to know it all or be an expert before joining a research team. They can jump right in and learn as they go.
 Purdue students are enthusiastic and capable, and we want to create a culture and climate that is really supportive of undergraduate research.
" In addition to Ward, members of the grant-winning team are professors of statistics Rebecca Doerge, Jun Xie, Hao Zhang and Lingsong Zhang, who will help lead the program, and professors Guang Cheng, Sharon Christ, Hyonho Chun, Bruce Craig, Frederi Viens and Xiao Wang.
 A $9400/year stipend will be given to participating students, so that they may focus on their academics and research experience, he said.
 The grant provides funding for 20 students each year, beginning in the fall of 2014, and spans five years. The program is open to students in any major, but is focused on statistics and would likely involve those from other areas adding a statistics major, Ward said.
 "We want to get students comfortable with large data sets and visualization tools earlier," Ward said. "The 'big data' problem is only going to become more important as time goes by.
 The way we teach statistics and data analysis is rapidly evolving." The size of Purdue's undergraduate program in the Department of Statistics
 has more than doubled in the last five years (an increase from 200 to more than 400 students), and employment opportunities in the field continue to increase, Ward said.
 "Everybody has data, and companies need people well-suited to analyze it," he said. "Statistics has applications in almost every field.
 This program will represent that breadth, because faculty in other departments are collaborating with us, providing both data sets and mentoring in applied research opportunities.
 I think it will be eye opening for the students to see how statistics affects other fields and can be applied to real-world problems.
" The learning community will be a part of the Learning Community Program within Student Success at Purdue. Participating students will live together in a residence hall, so that they may connect with their peers and discuss research in an encouraging team-oriented climate, Ward said.
 Students also will dine with their professors as part of a faculty fellow program. The program also will offer professional development opportunities for increased mentoring, especially for women, underrepresented minorities, and persons with disabilities.
 "Purdue Statistics has a consulting program for graduate students, that many departments across the country have recreated," he said.
 "I would love for this sophomore undergraduate experience to become a nationwide model for how we train students at the sophomore level.
" Partners in the program include the College of Science, College of Engineering, College of Health and Human Sciences, and the Honors College; the Regenstrief Center for Healthcare Engineering; Discovery Learning Research Center; Office of the Dean of Students; Housing and Food Services; Information Technology at Purdue; Libraries; the Purdue Chapter of the Society for Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science (SACNAS); and Student Success in the Office of the Provost.
 Student activities have been planned in connection with Duke University, the University of California, Los Angeles, and Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology.
 A link for students to apply for this research opportunity will be posted on the project's website, http://www.stat.purdue.edu/llc
; for more information, send email to llc@stat.purdue.edu.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/11-purdue-researchers-won-nsf-early-career-awards-in-2012.html
<Content> 11 Purdue researchers won NSF early-career awards in 2012
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Eleven Purdue University faculty members won 2012 Faculty Early Career Development awards from the National Science Foundation, one of the most prestigious NSF honors for outstanding young researchers.
 The NSF issues about 400 Early Career awards annually. Purdue's 2012 recipients were Suzanne Bart, Guang Cheng, José Figueroa-López, Jeffrey Karpicke, Milind Kulkarni, Peijun Li, Jennifer Neville, Senay Purzer, Xiulin Ruan, Xavier Tricoche and Adam Wasserman.
 Bart, an assistant professor of chemistry, will focus on the synthesis, characterization and reactivity of reduced uranium complexes for small-molecule activation.
 She will study the use of depleted uranium as a catalyst for common reactions needed for the synthesis of many materials. Depleted uranium is cheaper and more abundant than the transition metals, including rhodium, palladium and platinum, commonly used for such synthesis.
 She also will expand her initiative to increase the population of women among college-age science majors with her ChemTeens conference (formerly High School Day on Campus for Girls).
 Cheng, an associate professor of statistics, is investigating two classes of bootstrap methods in semi-nonparametric models for quicker and more efficient analysis of massive data sets.
 Bootstrap methods can be used in classification analysis, like the programs used to determine what movie a customer may like based on previous selections.
 Cheng will evaluate under what circumstances these statistical methods can be accurately applied and investigate ways to adjust the methods for use with different datasets.
 He also will work to create a "statistical learning with stability control" method that combines the semi-parametric statistical model with computer science's machine-learning method.
 "Stable statistical learning" could be used for datasets with many variables and be applied to personalized medicine. Figueroa-López, an associate professor of statistics, will create new mathematical models and methods to analyze massive and rapidly recorded data sets like those that come from the thousands of transactions made each second in the stock market.
 The dramatic increase of data has led to more "errors" and noise unaccounted for in existing models of these systems. He will work to bridge high-frequency data analysis and continuous-time features of Lévy-type models.
 Figueroa-López also will use the grant to open research positions for undergraduate students. Karpicke, an associate professor and the James V.
 Bradley Chair of Psychological Sciences, will use his grant to study how retrieval practice, which are forms of self-testing, helps undergraduate students learn biology.
 His previous research shows that students who use retrieval practice retain the information longer and learn better, compared to students who reread or review study notes.
 Kulkarni, an assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering, will use his grant to develop automated techniques that improve the performance of "irregular programs" needed for demanding jobs, such as complex scientific computations or business analytics.
 The programs transform the relatively simple code of user applications into the machine code needed for complex computer systems.
 They are used for a range of applications, from modeling climate to analyzing consumer behavior and finding information about Facebook friends.
 Li, an associate professor of mathematics, will develop mathematical models, examine mathematical issues and design computational methods for problems that arise from acoustic and electromagnetic wave propagation in complex and random environments.
 Such models and methods will benefit and improve the various applications of the underlying inverse scattering problems such as locating oil and gas underground and other geophysical exploration; tumor detection and biomedical imaging; and military radar and sonar detection and evasion.
 Li also will develop a sequence of courses to introduce students to this field and support the Center for Computational Mathematics, which provides a platform to discuss future directions of research in this area.
 Neville, an associate professor of computer science and statistics, will study the mechanisms that influence the accuracy of machine-learning methods for large-scale networks, including social networks like Facebook and physical networks like the Internet.
 She will use this understanding to develop predictive models of network behavior and analysis methods to evaluate the effectiveness of different algorithms.
 Neville also will create methods to determine the significance of network patterns discovered by the algorithms and models. Data from social networks will be used for this work, but the research has applications in a wide range of domains including psychology, communications, education and political science.
 Purzer, an assistant professor of engineering education, will use her grant in research aimed at developing ways to measure the innovation skills of engineering students.
 Assessment and teaching tools developed in the work may be used to design engineering degree programs that produce more innovative graduates.
 The research has a potentially broad impact on the U.S. workforce through the wide distribution of its findings to education scholars as well as academic decision-makers.
 Ruan, an assistant professor of mechanical engineering, will use his grant for research aimed at developing advanced simulation tools to predict the behavior of materials that have never been synthesized before.
 Such an advance could accelerate the commercialization of new materials for applications ranging from solar energy to homeland security, electronics to medicine.
 Tricoche, an assistant professor of computer science, will pioneer a comprehensive approach for the efficient visual analysis of large-scale data sets in the context of multidisciplinary collaborations spanning fluid dynamics, materials engineering, high-energy physics and cardiovascular research.
 He will apply new mathematical theories to model the behavior of various systems, identify what information is significant or could be of interest, and present it in an intuitive geometric visual display.
 Tricoche will make the software he creates publicly available and will offer workshops to promote a collaborative effort in the visualization community.
 He also will create new undergraduate and graduate courses to expose students to the importance of data analysis in science and engineering and the role of advanced visualization.
 Wasserman, an assistant professor of chemistry, will develop methods to calculate the properties of molecules that extend the reach of quantum-chemical approaches based on Density Functional Theory.
 His approach allows for the calculation of ground and excited electronic states of molecules including metastable ones. Wasserman also has created a concept for calculating the properties of fragments of molecules and electron charge, called the partition potential.
 The concept overcomes problems presented by molecules undergoing bond stretching, which occurs just before bonds are created or broken and is important to understanding chemical reactions.
 These calculations will help in the design of materials and synthesis of new molecules. Wasserman also will work to increase the involvement of Hispanic minorities and organize scientific events that promote Hispanic participation in science research.
 NSF Early Career Development awards </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/12th-pals-camp-to-help-more-than-500-local-youth.html
<Content> 12th PALS camp to help more than 500 local youth
 Local youth, ages 8-14, learn judo in the 2012 Purdue Athletes Life Success program, which serves children who qualify based on income guidelines.
 The program does not advertise or recruit, but more than 500 campers are registered and there is a waiting list. This year's camp is June 13 to July 12.
 (Purdue University file photo/Mark Simons)Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — An annual Purdue University summer program that has benefited nearly 3,000 low-income Tippecanoe County children for more than a decade by providing lessons about sports and healthy living, also is boosting campers' self-esteem and interest in physical activity, according to new research.
 The Purdue Athletes Life Success program, which serves children who qualify based on income guidelines, began its 12th year on June 13 and will run through July 12.
 The program is housed in the Department of Health and Kinesiology and does not advertise or recruit, but more than 500 campers are registered and there is a waiting list.
 "When we started in 2002 the focus was on sports and physical well-being, and while that drives the activities each year, the heart of the programming is positive personal development," said Bill Harper, PALS co-director and professor of health and kinesiology.
 "PALS has just four weeks with these children, but all aspects are dedicated to encouraging positive attitude, self-esteem and hope so they will be successful in life.
 "Since 2007 researchers have been studying the effectiveness and consequences of this approach, and we're finding that, yes, four weeks in a program like ours makes a difference," Harper said.
 "Moving forward, the next research phases will tell us how the camp experience helps children in the classroom and how we can better train our program team leaders.
" The campers, ages 8-14, spend time at various stations - strategically spaced on campus so campers walk more than an hour a day - to learn about sports, such as soccer, judo, softball, basketball, swimming, volleyball and active team building games.
 Other stations include art, dance, careers, healthy eating and American Sign Language. Purdue Federal Credit Union also offers a financial literacy component.
 The campers are placed in groups based on age and are with the same team leaders through the program. These relationships between campers and their adult role models are associated with changes in self-esteem and positive attitudes, said Meghan McDonough, associate professor of health and kinesiology who is leading the research.
 The first sets of findings were recently published in Research Quarterly and Journal of Adolescence, and a consistent finding is that campers' self-esteem improves by the end of camp.
 "The campers who reported the most supportive leaders at the end of camp, were more likely to improve self-esteem and motivation for physical activity," McDonough said.
 "And, self-esteem is especially important for these at-risk youth. We also found that these higher self-esteem levels were retained after camp ended.
" Local youth, ages 8-14, swim at the 2012 Purdue Athletes Life Success program. This year's camp is June 13 to July 12, and more than 500 campers will attend.
 The campers rotate stations, which are strategically spaced on campus so participants walk more than an hour a day. (Purdue University file photo/Mark Simons)
Download Photo The importance and influence of adult leaders in such youth programming is well known, but McDonough said there are few tested guidelines or curriculum on how to help such adult role models strengthen these relationships and connections.
 This summer McDonough's team will be implementing and testing a new training curriculum. The 24 PALS team leaders are current or recent college students, and about a third of these team leaders are Purdue NCAA athletes or are involved in club sports.
 Eight of this year's team leaders are former campers themselves, and 10 recent campers were selected to serve as junior team leaders.
 While the data analysis and publication of research data takes time, McDonough and her team regularly report their preliminary findings to Harper so the camp can be updated.
 "The research takes place behind the scenes, but it is essential to camp function and helps us improve the camp each year," Harper said.
 "A few years ago, the researchers picked up on a theme of campers referencing local gang activity, so we adapted the programming to have anti-gang speakers and work more closely with local anti-gang resources.
 These research findings also inspired us to adopt themes related to kindness, fairness, courage and caring." PALS is supported by many community and campus contributions, including the Division of Recreational Sports, which provides the fields, pool and other areas for activity stations, and Housing and Food Services, where the campers eat breakfast and lunch every day.
 Doctors and nurse practitioners from Purdue University Student Health Center and Unity Healthcare provided free medical exams to all campers in May.
 The exams include general physical health, vision, orthopedics and blood pressure. Program funding comes partially from Purdue Federal Credit Union and the Brees Dream Foundation.
 Drew Brees is the former All-America quarterback for Purdue, and 2010 Super Bowl champion New Orleans Saints. PALS also received $10,700 from the inaugural 
Purdue Boilermaker Half-Marathon and 5K on Oct. 20. This year's race on Oct. 19 will support PALS again, and more information is available at 
http://purduehalf.com/ </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/2-purdue-professors-named-ace-fellows.html
<Content> 2 Purdue professors named ACE fellows
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Two Purdue University professors are among 50 fellows selected nationwide this year by the American Council on Education
. Selected for the honor were Liping Cai, professor and director of Purdue's Tourism and Hospitality Research Center and associate dean for diversity and international programs in the College of Health and Human Sciences, and Makarand Hastak, a professor of civil engineering and head of the Division of Construction Engineering and Management.
 The 2013-14 class will bring to almost 2,000 the number of higher education leaders who have participated in the program since its inception in 1965.
 The program focuses on identifying and preparing fellows for senior leadership roles. More than 300 of the fellows have gone on to serve as chief executive officers of colleges and universities, and more than 1,300 have served as provosts, vice presidents or deans.
 "We are proud to participate in this prestigious program because it affords us the opportunity to showcase and honor people at Purdue with tremendous leadership abilities," said Beverly Davenport Sypher, vice provost and the Susan Bulkeley Butler Chair for Leadership Excellence.
 "Professors Cai and Hastak exemplify everything the ACE program stands for." The ACE Fellows Program combines retreats, interactive learning opportunities, campus visits and placement at another higher education institution to condense years of on-the-job experience and skills development into a single year.
 Cai studies branding and consumers in tourism and specializes in emerging markets and community-based tourism. He is a governor-appointee to the Indiana Tourism Council and is director of Purdue University China Center.
 He pioneered a destination-branding model and has successfully applied the model and other destination-management expertise to assist economic development for communities.
 Before joining the Purdue faculty in 1999, he was director of the Center for Economic Development through Tourism at New Mexico State University.
 Hastak has been involved with the construction industry for more than two decades and has conducted research, taught and assisted industry in the area of construction engineering and management, including disaster risk reduction, infrastructure management, cost control, project management, management decision-making, risk management and strategic planning.
 His research includes work to develop systems that predict how a disaster's impact on critical infrastructure would affect a city's social and economic fabric, a potential tool to help reduce the severity of impacts, manage the aftermath of catastrophe and fortify infrastructure against future disasters.
 He established the Solutions for Profitability and Assessment of Risk in Construction research lab at Purdue and serves as editor-in-chief of the ASCE Journal of Management in Engineering.
 Before joining the Purdue faculty in 2001, he was an assistant professor at the University of Cincinnati. Makarand Hastak, 765-494-0641, 
hastak@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/2013-world-film-forum-travels-to-italy,-uk,-china.html
<Content> 2013 World Film Forum travels to Italy, UK, China
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The World Film Forum will present "Fantasy & Reality: The Magic of the Movies" in November 2013. The films will be shown at Lafayette Theater, 600 Main St.
, and doors open to the public for free popcorn and cash bar at 6:30 p.m. Brief introductions for each film will be given at 7 p.m.
 and presenters will lead audience discussions after the screenings. The theme was selected through a survey of last year's audience members, said Antonia Syson, assistant professor of classics and forum coordinator.
 * Nov. 5, 7-9:30 p.m., "Amarcord" from Italy with English subtitles Rated R. This unique blend of carnivalesque satire, personal reminiscence and coming-of-age tale was directed by Federico Fellini and released in 1974.
 Presenter is Ben Lawton, associate professor of Italian and Film & Video Studies. * Nov. 12, 7-9:30 p.m., "I Know Where I'm Going!
" from the United Kingdom Rated U for Universal by the UK. The influential filmmaking team of Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger created this 1945 romance, which unites Scottish location filming on land and sea with ingenious cinematic sleight of hand.
 Presenter is Antonia Syson, assistant professor of classics. * Nov. 19. 7-9:30 p.m., "The Road Home" from China with English subtitles Rated G.
 A son's memories of his parents' love story are conveyed magically, yet with touching simplicity, in this 1999 drama directed by Yimou Zhang.
 The presenter is Wei Hong, professor of Chinese and director of the Confucius Institute, and the discussion will be led by comparative literature doctoral students Yuhan Huang and Meng Wang.
 The event is sponsored by Purdue's Film & Video Studies program, the Confucius Institute at Purdue, and the School of Languages and Cultures.
 Movie summaries are available at http://www.cla.purdue.edu/slc/main/news/World_Film_Forum.html School of Languages and Cultures 
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/4-purdue-students-receive-full-ride-stamps-scholarships.html
<Content> 4 Purdue students receive full-ride Stamps scholarships
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Four incoming students, including two from Indiana, have been awarded Stamps Scholarships, which have recently increased to cover all costs for an undergraduate degree at Purdue University.
 The move from a partial scholarship to a full ride was made possible by the Stamps Family Charitable Foundation Inc., said Jennifer Dexter, senior assistant director and scholarship coordinator for the Office of Admissions.
 There are now 14 Stamps scholars at Purdue. In addition to the monetary award, these scholars will each have access to a $10,000 enrichment fund to help cover expenses for study opportunities, such as conferences, seminars, study abroad programs, leadership training and research internships.
 Students receiving the scholarship are selected based on a pool of the highest achieving high school seniors who were admitted by mid-December.
 These students are identified by the Office of Admissions and are then invited to apply. Applications are reviewed by a committee, which decides who will be nominated for the scholarship.
 A representative from the Stamps Foundation interviews each nominee to select recipients. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/6-million-to-fund-2-professorships-in-history-of-medicine,-science.html
<Content> $6 million to fund 2 professorships in history of medicine, science
 Douglas Hurt, at left, head of Purdue's history department, with Purdue President Mitch Daniels, who announced a gift for two endowed chairs in the history of science and the history of medicine.
 (Purdue University photo/Steven Yang) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University will add professorships in the history of science and the history of medicine, increasing the number of endowed chairs in the Department of History from one to three, thanks to a gift.
 The donors, who wish to remain anonymous, are giving $3 million to fund the professorships. That will be matched by $3 million in discretionary funds authorized by Purdue President Mitch Daniels.
 "These new professorships are strategic investments that highlight the central role the liberal arts play in building a well-rounded curriculum at a school as strong as Purdue in science, technology, engineering and math, the STEM disciplines," Daniels said.
 "These positions will help develop young scientists, engineers and health-care professionals who have a broad-based education and are prepared to make a difference in the world, while it will give liberal arts students a broad and deep foundation in the history of science and medicine.
" The new professorships will be combined with history of technology courses already taught in the College of Liberal Arts' Department of History.
 "This gift, the largest ever for the Department of History at Purdue, will transform the department, allowing us to create a niche specialty in the history of science, medicine and technology that will build our national reputation and prestige in the discipline," said department head Douglas Hurt.
 "With the endowed professorships and the new program, the College of Liberal Arts will be able to explore more fully how advances in these disciplines succeed, fail and impact lives.
" "Complementing Purdue's colleges of Health and Human Sciences, Veterinary Medicine, Engineering, and Technology, especially, courses in the history of science and medicine will make a major contribution to the core curriculum," he said.
 "Beyond that, this new program will allow us to attract excellent graduate students nationally who will be drawn to both the research and teaching components.
" The new professors also will work with faculty in health and human sciences, engineering, veterinary medicine, Discovery Park and in the Liberal Arts departments of Sociology, Philosophy, Political Science and Anthropology.
 "This generous and transformative gift will enable us to find the best minds, scholars who will pursue interdisciplinary and transnational research and new teaching initiatives and opportunities," he said.
 "Our teaching and research in the history of science and medicine will provide a framework in which discoveries in these disciplines can be best envisioned, understood and implemented for the benefit of individuals and society and help improve the quality of life and the impact of discovery.
" Douglas Hurt, 765-494-4132, doughurt@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/65-million-committed-to-purdue-ag--universitys-largest-gift.html
<Content> $65 million committed to Purdue Ag – university's largest gift
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – The Purdue University College of Agriculture has received an anonymous estate gift valued at $65 million in today's dollars, the largest donation from individuals in the university's history.
 "This gift is a tremendous vote of confidence for all of Purdue and our College of Agriculture," Purdue President Mitch Daniels said.
 "Their generosity will enhance Purdue Agriculture's ability to educate future generations of food and agricultural leaders and scientists, make the discoveries that improve and save lives, and ensure those discoveries make it into the hands of the people who need them.
" Jay Akridge, Glenn W. Sample Dean of Agriculture, said, "This is truly a transformational gift, which will dramatically enhance our ability to make a difference for the people of Indiana, our country and the world.
" Akridge said the donors want to remain anonymous and provided the college flexibility in how it will use the money. "Their wishes are that this future funding be used in the best possible way to build on Purdue Agriculture's tradition of excellence and to ensure that we enhance that excellence in all we do going forward," he said.
 "This donor will make an incredible investment in Purdue Agriculture because they believe in our ability, both today and in the future, to deliver on a research, education and Extension mission that addresses our most pressing real-world problems with real-world solutions.
" Lisa Calvert, Purdue vice president for development, said the gift also was an endorsement in the leadership of the university.
 "The donors made the gift in support of Mitch Daniels in his new role as president," she said. "Since the announcement of a new administration in June, there has been an increase in broad base support, including the total number of donors and dollars raised, resulting in a new energy in philanthropy.
" Purdue officials also announced that $22 million in gifts and university matching funds has created 13 new endowed professorships as part of the Faculty Excellence Challenge Match launched last year.
 The professorships are vital to recruiting and retaining top faculty. Purdue Agriculture, home to two World Food Prize laureates since 2007, is internationally known for strong academic, research and Extension programs that are at the forefront of sustainable and dynamic agricultural, food and natural resource innovations.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/8-purdue-students-receive-full-ride-with-graduate-school-option.html
<Content> 8 Purdue students receive full ride with graduate school option
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Eight Purdue students, including four from Indiana, have been awarded the Beering Scholarship, which covers full educational expenses for a bachelor's degree and the opportunity to pursue two other graduate degrees at the university.
 The students were selected based on high school academic credentials and leadership skills, said Jennifer Dexter, senior assistant director and scholarship coordinator for the Office of Admissions.
 The recipients can pursue one bachelor's degree, one master's degree or an MBA, and one doctoral degree at Purdue or medical school through Indiana University.
 The program also covers related educational expenses and a one-semester study abroad opportunity. The Beering Scholarship program was created by Purdue's ninth president, Dr.
 Steven C. Beering, who raised private funds for the endowment. An invitation to apply for the program is sent to the highest achieving high school seniors who are admitted by mid-December by the Office of Admissions.
 A committee reviews applications and determines the scholarship recipients. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/advice-on-securing-federal-grants-offered-through-free-workshop.html
<Content> Advice on securing federal grants offered through free workshop
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Researchers from educational institutions, entrepreneurs and inventors can learn how to secure federal grants to support research or commercialize innovations through a free workshop offered by Purdue University's Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship. Dan Hasler, president and chief entrepreneurial officer of Purdue Research Foundation, will speak at the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Workshop set for 10 a.m.
 to 3 p.m. Eastern time on Tuesday (March 19). The event will be in Room 121 of the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, 1201 W.
 State St., West Lafayette. Hasler, who previously served as the Indiana Secretary of Commerce and CEO of the Indiana Economic Development Corporation, will talk about grant programs sponsored by 11 federal participating agencies, including the Department of Defense, Department of Health and Human Services, the National Science Foundation, and the U.S.
 Department of Agriculture. "Securing funding is one of the biggest challenges that entrepreneurs and university researchers face as they work to develop and commercialize innovations," Hasler said.
 "Matching a discovery with the right funding agency and writing a strong grant proposal can make all the difference in acquiring the funds needed to bring important life-changing discoveries to the public.
 We will talk about the best methods to do this and other significant funding sources during the workshop." * Federal grant programs designed for small entrepreneurial enterprises working on new technologies.
 To register for the seminar, contact Bambrah Miller at bambrah@purdue.edu or Dave Kotterman at dkotter@purdue.edu. Seating is limited and lunch is included.
 The Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship is Purdue University's interdisciplinary hub for entrepreneurship. Through its sponsored initiatives, including the Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Technology Realization Program, Entrepreneurial Leadership Academy and business plan competitions, the center aims to stimulate entrepreneurship in the Purdue community and serve as a resource for the residents of Indiana and beyond.
 Located in Purdue's Discovery Park, the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship plays a key role in facilitating business development for emerging concepts and technologies stemming from Purdue research.
 Purdue Research Foundation is a private, nonprofit foundation created to advance the mission of Purdue University. The foundation accepts gifts; administers trusts; funds research, scholarships and grants; acquires property; and negotiates research contracts on behalf of Purdue.
 In the 1990s, the foundation was charged with helping the university in the realm of economic development. The Purdue Research Foundation oversees the Purdue Research Park, which is the largest university-affiliated business incubator in the country.
 In addition to the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette, the foundation has established technology parks in other locations around Indiana including Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Dave Kotterman, interim managing director, Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, dkotter@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/advocare-certified-to-provide-utilization-review-for-state-medicaid-agencies.html
<Content> Advocare certified to provide utilization review for state Medicaid agencies
 MERRILLVILLE, Ind. - Indiana-based health technology services firm Advocare has received federal certification as a designated Quality Improvement Organization (QIO)-like entity.
 This means Advocare can now provide utilization reviews and health quality management services to state Medicaid agencies across the country.
 The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) administers the QIO-like entity designation. Under federal law, state Medicaid agencies can contract with a QIO or QIO-like entity to perform medical and utilization review functions required by law.
 As part of the QIO-like designation, Advocare can pursue state Medicaid contracts for utilization review, and work with consumers, physicians, hospitals and other caregivers to ensure that patients receive the right care at the right time.
 The QIO-like entity designation, which must be revalidated every three years, originates in Advocare's home state of Indiana, but extends to all other states and Puerto Rico.
 Advocare is currently providing health care management technology support for the State of Indiana's Medicaid Waiver program. A wholly owned subsidiary of Merrillville-based health care data management firm interLink, Advocare's QIO-like entity designation reflects the company's goals of improving quality of care and lowering costs through integrated technology, with emphasis on underserved populations such as Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries.
 According to Richard Metzger, Advocare managing director, the QIO-like entity certification enriches that relationship. "Advocare's QIO-like status ensures the state of Indiana, and all of our future customers, receive the full breadth of Advocare's experience and knowledge at an even deeper level," he said.
 "This CMS designation complements Advocare's understanding of the human services field, and our expertise in integrating accessible technology that can minimize cost, ensure quality and provide measurable data across a broad number of traditional environments.
" Among the criteria Advocare met to achieve this certification included obtaining the status as a physician-access organization, demonstrating the ability to perform medical and quality-review functions, and establishing the presence of a consumer advocate on its governing board.
 Advocare's corporate office is located in the Purdue Research Park of Northwest Indiana in Merrillville. interLink provides IT, communications, and senior-level management to organizations to achieve "Maximum growth.
 Minimum time." Working in close collaboration with their partners, interLink listens and responds with informed, strategic, and process-driven solutions to ensure partner initiatives are implemented and objectives are satisfied in an efficient, measureable, and transparent manner.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 240 companies that employ about 4,500 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Source: Nora Loechel, 219-644-3033, n.loechel@intermediususa.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/after-hours-care-for-work-related-injuries-no-longer-available-at-greenbush-street-location.html
<Content> After-hours care for work-related injuries no longer available at Greenbush Street location
 The Greenbush Street location of IU Health Urgent Care no longer provides service after 5 p.m. If an employee has a work-related injury or illness requiring care after 5 p.m.
, the following IU Health locations are available: * 253 Sagamore Parkway West, West Lafayette. 7 a.m.-9 p.m. every day and 8 a.m.
-8 p.m. holidays Care is also available at Unity Immediate Care, 1321 Unity Place (off Creasy Lane), Lafayette, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
 daily, except Christmas. For more information, including locations for treating serious injuries, go to www.purdue.edu/hr/Benefits/wcimmediatecare.html#treatmentFacilities
.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/ag-economist-2013-a-transition-year-for-grain-farmers.html
<Content> Ag economist: 2013 a transition year for grain farmers
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Changes in the economics of grain production after drought led to record-high farm incomes in 2012 could mean a shift in the demand for and prices of agricultural inputs for the 2014 crop, a Purdue Extension agricultural economist says.
 The 2012 drought-ravaged crop left short supplies and high demand, with farmers receiving high prices for the grain they were able to produce and high insurance indemnities on covered crops that were destroyed.
 High grain-farm incomes capped a series of years with abnormally high grain prices. But with some drought relief in major corn- and soybean-production states leading to expected higher yields and lower commodity prices, grain farmers can expect to see changes in what they pay for inputs, such as seed, fertilizers, fuels and chemicals, for the 2014 crop.
 An apparent shift in market demand for corn and soybeans also could play a major role in what it will cost growers to produce the next crop, Alan Miller said.
 "The markets are currently saying they want more soybeans and less corn in 2014, which changes the demand for inputs," he said. "For example, growers don't need as much nitrogen fertilizer if they are growing less corn.
 That ultimately will affect the prices of inputs." The big story in 2014 crop production costs, Miller said, is fertilizer prices.
 Potash and phosphate prices have been declining since the fall of 2012 and are down 15-17 percent since last spring. Nitrogen prices peaked last spring and have dropped about 22 percent this fall.
 Farmers' ability to apply fertilizer this fall will help determine what prices will look like for next spring. "If weather or a late harvest were to keep farmers from applying fertilizers this fall, it could drive fertilizer prices down for the spring," he said.
 "Normally, fertilizer prices hit bottom in the early fall, but we will have to wait and see is if the market is weak enough to sustain the drop into the spring.
" Nitrogen prices also are falling because the U.S. is now a low-cost producer. North American fertilizer producers are expecting historically strong sales this fall.
 During the height of the ethanol boom, farmers were growing more corn and using more nitrogen. Plus, natural gas prices were high.
 Since then, natural gas prices have fallen, which has led to renewed interest in investing in domestic production capacity for nitrogen fertilizers.
 This leads to greater supplies of U.S.-produced nitrogen in the future if the cost of producing it here stays well below its market price as it is now.
 "Corn growers really will start to see the full effect of more domestically produced nitrogen in 2015," Miller said. "We have been importing more than 50 percent of our nitrogen fertilizer, meaning supply disruptions could easily impact prices.
 As we produce more of our own, we will import less. The bigger supply will benefit corn producers." Recent prices for nitrogen in anhydrous ammonia form have hovered around $700 per ton.
 According to Miller, that could possibly eventually fall to as low as $400 or $500 per ton if U.S. production capacity increases considerably.
 One area where farmers won't see price relief is seed costs. By Miller's estimates, some seed could be up by 2-3 percent or more for the 2014 planting season.
 "Seed is not the place where growers will cut corners to try to save money," he said. "They will be careful in pricing inputs, but they want the technology to produce the best crop possible.
" The prices of chemicals, such as herbicides, pesticides and fungicides, are likely to be a mixed bag. For the most part, chemical prices will be up slightly - about 1 percent, according to Miller.
 The exception is herbicide, where prices will remain flat. Prices for fuels commonly used on the farm currently are expected to be down in 2014.
 The costs for both diesel, which powers most farm machinery, and propane, which farmers use to power grain dryers, could be down by about 4 percent.
 Fuel prices, however, can be among the most volatile costs farmers encounter each year because much of it is imported. While an increase in domestic energy production has helped thwart major supply disruptions, Miller said tensions abroad could affect what farmers pay for fuel in the U.S.
 "We have to be a concerned because of the unrest in the Middle East," he said. "It could quickly change the fuel-price outlook."
 Farmers who have wanted to purchase new tractors, combines, implements or other machinery have encountered increasing prices. Machinery prices increased by an average of 7.4 percent per year from 2002 to 2012 because record-high farm incomes increased demand.
 The sustained increases in machinery prices could quickly come to a halt, especially for used farm equipment, if commodity prices decline and stay down for an extended period of time, Miller said.
 As producers make their decisions about inputs for the 2014 crop year, Miller said the bottom line is that they should keep an eye on the economics of each decision.
 For fertilizer, that means waiting to see if prices continue to decline, while it also means going ahead and spending the money now for seed that best fits individual production systems.
 "Farmers always need to look for ways to be more efficient by looking for ways to drive down the cost per unit of output," he said.
 "They also need to be cautious with capital investments, such as equipment and land purchases and rents." </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/agreliant-genetics,-purdue-ag-create-fund-for-student-research.html
<Content> AgReliant Genetics, Purdue Ag create fund for student research
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - AgReliant Genetics and Purdue University and have created a $1 million endowment fund to support College of Agriculture graduate students conducting research in areas such as plant science, plant breeding and genetics, and soil sciences.
 Establishment of the AgReliant Genetics Endowment, in which the company and university are to contribute $500,000 each through Purdue's Graduate Education Match program, was announced Tuesday (Aug.
 20). The endowment signifies the importance of research and education in a vital and complex industry, said Craig Newman, president and chief executive of AgReliant Genetics and a Purdue alumnus.
 "With the ever-increasing population, it's critical that today's agricultural industry invests in the research being conducted by tomorrow's agricultural leaders," he said.
 "Purdue's College of Agriculture is world-renowned, and we are honored to work with such a reputable institution to further the research and development of new innovations.
" Preference for funding will be given to graduate students conducting research in plant sciences, plant breeding and genetics, and soil sciences and to students in the agronomy department.
 Students in horticulture, entomology, botany and plant pathology, and other academic departments involved in relevant areas of research also will be considered for funding.
 Jay Akridge, Glenn W. Sample Dean of the College of Agriculture, said the endowment reflects the commitment of AgReliant Genetics and Purdue Agriculture to enhancing graduate education and research in the plant and soil sciences.
 "This investment will help ensure that we continue to produce the human talent that industry needs," he said. AgReliant Genetics, based in Westfield, Ind.
, was created in 2000 as a joint venture between the international seed groups KWS and Limagrain. Ranked among the largest field seed companies in North America, it markets corn, soybean and alfalfa seed through six brands: AgriGold Hybrids, Great Lakes Hybrids, LG Seeds, Producers Hybrids, Wensman Seed and Pride Seeds.
 Samantha Sisk, corporate communications manager, AgReliant Genetics, 317-896-5552, samantha.sisk@agreliantgenetics.com </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/ahtna-youth-in-alaska-learn-about-historic-copper-tools,-technology-in-summer-program.html
<Content> Ahtna youth in Alaska learn about historic copper tools, technology in summer program
 H. Kory Cooper, a Purdue assistant professor of anthropology, holds a raw copper nugget from Alaska's Copper River region. In August, Cooper and a graduate student will demonstrate to Ahtna youth from the Copper River region ancient copper working to teach them about the science and art of making copper tools like their ancestors made 1,000 years ago.
 This programming is supported by a grant Cooper received in 2011 from the Arctic Social Sciences Division of the National Science Foundation, and in partnership with the Ahtna Heritage Foundation.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons)Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Archaeologists with Purdue University will demonstrate ancient copper working at Culture Camps for Alaska native youth in the Copper River Valley in August.
 The goal is to teach them about the science and art of making copper tools like their ancestors made 1,000 years ago. "The Ahtna culture is rich in stories and history about their ancestors and copper, and our program will bring in the science components of archaeology, geology and engineering of native copper," said 
H. Kory Cooper, an assistant professor of anthropology, who has been working in the Copper River Region since 1995. Cooper focuses on archaeometallurgy, which is the study of ancient and historic metals.
 "After learning about the science of copper and archaeology, the campers will have a chance to make tools using traditional Ahtna copper-working techniques and native copper nuggets," he said.
 "By incorporating archaeology and science lessons with their cultural history, we hope to inspire these youth to study science or engineering.
" Copper found in a very pure form, considered 99.99 percent and is known as native copper, was used by several different native groups in Alaska and Yukon as early as about 1,000 years ago.
 The Ahtna, a Dene-speaking Alaska native group, were best known for their copper-working skills and for their control of the trade of copper to other native groups.
 Children from the Ahtna communities of Klutina and Ts'edi'na will participate in the cultural day camps, which are sponsored by the 
Ahtna Heritage Foundation and run by community members. The program dates are Aug. 2 and 3 for the Klutina community, which is near the city of Copper Center, and Aug.
 10 for the Ts'edi'na community, which is about 50 miles from Copper Center. This programming is supported by a grant Cooper received in 2011 from the Arctic Social Sciences Division of the National Science Foundation.
 Several Ahtna communities offer culture camps on a regular basis, usually in the summer, where youth can learn more about their culture and traditional technology including such topics as gathering, preparing and preserving different foods, tanning hides, and hunting and fishing.
 Purdue graduate student Elizabeth Carroll, who is working on her master's degree in anthropology and studies metal work, will lead the cultural camp students through using stone tools and traditional Ahtna techniques to make tools out of native copper nuggets.
 "We want to let the youth feel and work with the material and experience how long it takes to create something," Cooper said. The tools will be mirrored after items found at a local archaeological site near the Ahtna community of Gulkana that was excavated by Cooper and others in the 1990s.
 These tools, which include awls, date back to A.D. 900-1200. An awl is an all-purpose tool used to punch holes in leather for sewing and a variety of other tasks.
 Cooper also will share with the students his research on native copper innovation in the region, how this technology emerged in the past, how it was used, and how it spread.
 As part of the National Science Foundation grant, Cooper also is examining pieces from various museum and regional collections to catalog locations of finds and to answer questions about technology development, trade routes and past social and political processes.
 Additionally, Cooper is collaborating with the Ahtna Heritage Foundation, which is the nonprofit Native Alaskan organization responsible for education and cultural programs in the Copper River region, on the creation of a book and exhibit about the native copper for the Cultural Center in Copper Center, Alaska.
 Other collaborators on this project include the Ahtna Heritage Foundation; University of Alaska Museum of the North at the University of Alaska-Fairbanks; Antonio Simonetti, research associate professor at the University of Notre Dame; Bill Simeone, cultural anthropologist; and Robert "Jeff" Speakman, associate director of the University of Georgia's Center for Applied Isotope Studies.
 Cooper also has a courtesy appointment in Purdue's School of Materials Engineering, where, in collaboration with Carol Handwerker, Purdue's Reinhardt Schuhmann Jr.
 Professor of Materials Engineering, he has developed a course titled "Archaeology and Materials Science." Graduate and undergraduate students in the course learn some of the methods and theories used to study ancient technology.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/air-force-general-to-give-boeing-lecture.html
<Content> Air Force general to give Boeing Lecture
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Air Force Lt. Gen. C.D. Moore II will present the William E. Boeing Distinguished Lecture at Purdue University on Oct.
 1. Lt. Gen. Moore's talk on preserving aerospace combat advantages in a fiscally constrained environment will be at 4 p.m. in Stewart Center's Fowler Hall.
 It is free and open to the public. The William E. Boeing Distinguished Lecture Series, named in honor of the Boeing Co.'s founder, is administered by the College of Engineering's School of Aeronautics and Astronautics.
 Started in 1999, the series features an internationally known speaker from the aerospace or air transportation industries. Lt. Gen.
 Moore is commander of the Air Force Life Cycle Management Center at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. The organization is responsible for total life-cycle management covering all aircraft, engines, munitions and electronic systems.
 Lt. Gen. Moore graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy and, as a Guggenheim Fellow, earned a master's degree in aeronautical engineering at Columbia University before entering flight school in 1981.
 He served as a T-38 instructor pilot, an operational F-15 pilot and as an experimental test pilot. He also served as commander of the first F-22 squadron as well as a group commander at Eglin AFB, materiel wing director of the F-16 System Program Office, materiel wing commander of the F-22 System Program Office, and vice commander of the Aeronautical Systems Center.
 His staff assignments include director of special programs in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics, and deputy director of the Global Power Directorate in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, and deputy program executive officer of the F-35 Joint Program Office.
 Lt. Gen. Moore served as chief of air operations, Multi-National Forces-Iraq in 2004, and he is a command pilot with more than 3,000 flight hours in 30 types of aircraft.
 Source: Tom Shih, head of Aeronautics and Astronautics, tomshih@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/alternative-materials-could-bring-plasmonic-technologies.html
<Content> Alternative materials could bring 'plasmonic' technologies
 This graphic depicts a device created using "negatively refracting metamaterials" that could bring advances in applications including sensing, imaging, data storage, solar energy and optics.
 Purdue researchers are working on a range of options to overcome a fundamental obstacle in commercializing the materials. The small spheres at right represent a lattice of "meta-atoms" carefully designed and fabricated to produce a high-performance device.
 (Birck Nanotechnology Center/Purdue University) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Researchers are working on a range of options to overcome a fundamental obstacle in commercializing "plasmonic metamaterials" that could bring advanced optical technologies for more powerful computers, new cancer treatments and other innovations.
 The materials could make it possible to harness clouds of electrons called "surface plasmons" to manipulate and control light. Plasmonic materials under development now rely on the use of metals such as gold and silver, which absorb too much light for devices to be practical and are said to be "lossy" for this reason.
 They also are not compatible with the complementary metal–oxide–semiconductor (CMOS) manufacturing process used to construct integrated circuits.
 "However, there are many alternative materials other than conventional metallic components that exhibit metallic properties and provide advantages in device performance," said Gururaj V.
 Naik, who is involved in the research and received a doctoral degree in electrical and computer engineering last month from Purdue University.
 Alternative materials range from specially "doped" semiconductors, to transparent electrically conductive oxides and ultrathin layers of carbon called graphene.
 An article about the materials was featured on the June cover of the journal Advanced Materials. The article provided a summary of recent developments in the search for better plasmonic materials and an outlook of further research directions.
 It was authored by Naik, Alexandra Boltasseva, a Purdue University associate professor of electrical and computer engineering, and 
Vladimir M. Shalaev, scientific director of nanophotonics at Purdue's Birck Nanotechnology Center, a distinguished professor of electrical and computer engineering and a scientific adviser for the Russian Quantum Center.
 Plasmonic materials are promising for various potential advances, including more powerful microscopes; sensors; new types of light-harvesting systems for more efficient solar cells; computers and consumer electronics that use light instead of electronic signals to process information; cancer treatment; data storage; and even a cloak of invisibility.
 Shalaev and Boltasseva have formed a startup company, Nano-Meta Technologies Inc., based at the Purdue Research Park. The company recently received $1 million in first-round funding from the venture capital firm Quantum Wave Fund to advance its early-stage technology.
 Nano-Meta Technologies is focusing initially on two applications: a new type of magnetic storage technology for computers and a new cancer-treatment approach.
 The researchers have proposed replacing metals in plasmonic materials with a host of alternatives, sidestepping the limitations of gold and silver.
 "As far as I know we are the first to address this issue of lossy metals and come up with alternative materials," Shalaev said. 
The researchers are working to replace silver and gold in materials that are created using two options: making semiconductors more metallic by adding metal impurities to them; or adding non-metallic elements to metals, in effect making them less metallic.
 Examples of these materials include zinc oxides and titanium nitride. The Purdue researchers propose using titanium nitride instead of metals for the data-storage concept.
 Because it has a higher melting point than gold or silver, it is especially promising for the technology, which works by using heat to record information on a magnetic disk.
 Unlike gold and silver, titanium nitride is CMOS compatible. Nano-Meta Technologies is developing prototype hard-drive heads. In the cancer-treatment concept, tiny titanium nitride
 nanoparticles might be injected into the bloodstream so that they accumulate in tumors. Clinicians might shine a certain wavelength of light on these nanoparticles from outside the body, causing the particles to heat up and killing the cancer cells.
 Information about Nano-Meta Technologies is available online at http://www.nanometatech.com/home.php "We are especially excited about using our materials to enable the next generation of ultra-high-capacity computer hard drives,
" said Don Stocks, vice president of business operations at Nano-Meta Technologies. The heat-assisted magnetic recording (HAMR) drives promise far greater capacity than is possible with current technology, he said.
 "The most difficult challenge faced by the industry is identifying a robust and reliable plasmonic heat source with the necessary optical properties," Stocks said.
 "We believe we have a solution to this problem. Our CMOS-compatible plasmonic materials exhibit optical properties similar to gold with the added advantage of being very mechanically and thermally durable.
" Lenses made of traditional materials can't focus light onto a spot smaller than half its wavelength. The company is developing nanostructured compounds that can concentrate light through plasmonic effects to bypass this hurdle, called the diffraction limit, which restricts the resolution of light microscopes and lithography.
 Some new materials are showing promise in uses involving near-infrared light, the range of the spectrum critical for telecommunications and fiberoptics.
 Other materials also might work for light in the visible range of the spectrum. Note to Journalists: Journalists may obtain a copy of the research paper by contacting Emil Venere, 765-494-4709, 
venere@purdue.edu 1 School of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Birck Nanotechnology Center, Purdue University Materials research plays a vital role in transforming breakthrough scienti&#64257;c ideas into next-generation technology.
 Similar to the way silicon revolutionized the microelectronics industry, the proper materials can greatly impact the &#64257;eld of plasmonics and metamaterials.
 Currently, research in plasmonics and metamaterials lacks good material building blocks in order to realize useful devices. Such devices suffer from many drawbacks arising from the undesirable properties of their material building blocks, especially metals.
 There are many materials, other than conventional metallic components such as gold and silver, that exhibit metallic properties and provide advantages in device performance, design &#64258;exibility, fabrication, integration, and tenability.
 This review explores different material classes for plasmonic and metamaterial applications, such as conventional semiconductors, transparent conducting oxides, perovskite oxides, metal nitrides, silicides, germanides, and 2D materials such as graphene.
 This review provides a summary of the recent developments in the search for better plasmonic materials and an outlook of further research directions.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/alumni-group-may-hold-venture-capital-secret-for-startups,-next-big-idea-from-purdue-faculty,-researchers.html
<Content> Alumni group may hold venture capital secret for startups, next big idea from Purdue faculty, researchers
 Alumni group may hold venture capital secret for startups, next big idea from Purdue faculty, researchers Purdue professor Jessica Huber makes a business plan presentation to SV BIG members Wednesday (April 24) that highlights her SpeechVive device, which addresses a need for those battling Parkinson's disease.
 Several businesses led by Purdue faculty and staff made presentations to the alumni group during the event in Discovery Park. (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A new all-volunteer, nonprofit group composed of Silicon Valley-based Purdue University alumni could provide Purdue innovators and entrepreneurs with another avenue of support to commercialize the university's innovations.
 The Silicon Valley Boiler Innovation Group, or SV BIG, links established California venture capitalists, angel investors, entrepreneurs and industry officials who graduated from Purdue with Purdue entrepreneurs who are attempting to launch their own startups.
 Alumni Tom Schroeder and Bruce Schechter, two Silicon Valley-based businessmen, have had successful careers in entrepreneurship, business development and venture/angel investing and have been instrumental in getting SV BIG off the ground.
 "SV BIG was created through the initiative of several Purdue alumni who have been successful in the startup world. It is an independent, alumni-driven group," Schroeder said.
 "This grassroots organization can bring critical market advice, fundraising insight, a Silicon Valley cultural perspective and technical know-how to potential entrepreneurs at the university.
 "The objective of SV BIG is to help stimulate a startup culture and community at Purdue and support the creation of successful ventures based on Purdue technology.
 We want to help Purdue entrepreneurs to really think 'big,' " Schroeder said. Schroeder and Schechter assembled several Purdue alumni with experience in the venture industry.
 Today, SV BIG is comprises 24 members and is growing steadily. Schechter and core organizers Glenn Johnson and Rich Redelfs now are seeking more members to provide networking support and mentorship in Silicon Valley and beyond.
 SV BIG founders are recruiting Silicon Valley alumni who have served as company founders, executives, venture capitalists and angel investors.
 Schroeder, Schechter, Johnson and Redelfs continue to selectively add more members to expand the scale and scope of networking support and mentorship for the Purdue entrepreneurial community.
 "Purdue has a strong, proud alumni base, and many of them are successful entrepreneurs who have expressed an interest in engaging in the entrepreneurial activities happening through Purdue University and the Purdue Research Foundation," said Dan Hasler, president and chief entrepreneurial officer for 
Purdue Research Foundation. "Engaging some of our 400,000 alumni using a combination of technology and old-fashioned networking creates new opportunities for Purdue to enhance its technological and economic impact and move some of the 450-plus Purdue innovations to the public where they can help people.
 That is a top goal of our collective efforts." This week, the Silicon Valley group met with several entrepreneurially minded faculty members, researchers and students from across campus.
 The group offered feedback and coaching to the eight ventures during the event in the Hall for Discovery and Learning Research in 
Discovery Park and will put together a full mentoring team for several of the ventures with the highest potential for success. Jessica Huber, a Purdue speech, language and hearing sciences professor, presented her business plan to the SV BIG group about SpeechVive, a company she has launched to assist patients with Parkinson's disease to speak louder and more clearly.
 The SpeechVive device, which rests in a patient's ear, provides a stream of noise similar to the background chatter at a party, cueing the user to naturally talk louder.
 This response is known as the Lombard effect. Huber hopes to bring the device to market. "For me, the biggest benefit of presenting before the SV BIG group was the chance to have SpeechVive's business plan vetted by people in business.
 That's difficult to do on a university campus. And these Purdue alums are real VCs and established business leaders who are devoting their time and expertise," Huber said.
 "You can't put a value on that kind of mentoring. This could be huge for SpeechVive." SV BIG is an independent group, but also works closely with the university's Entrepreneurial Task Force, an entity created by Purdue chemical engineering professor Joe Pekny, who has started high-tech businesses from his research and commercialization efforts since joining the university in 1990.
 Working with John Boyle, director of the Purdue West Coast Partnership Center in California, initial Entrepreneurial Task Force membership was drawn from industrial engineering alumni involved in entrepreneurship.
 "SV BIG is exactly the type of program we had hoped would evolve to support the task force," Pekny said. "But the credit for the early success of the Silicon Valley group lies with the independent efforts of successful Purdue alumni who are willing and able to give back with their time as advisers, experts and mentors.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/angelina-jolies-double-mastectomy-highlights-need-for-advances-in-cancer-prevention,-not-just-treatment,-purdue-expert-says.html
<Content> Angelina Jolie's double mastectomy highlights need for advances in cancer prevention, not just treatment, Purdue expert says
 Angelina Jolie's double mastectomy highlights need for advances in cancer prevention, not just treatment, Purdue expert says WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - Angelina Jolie's announcement that she underwent a preventive double mastectomy to reduce her risk of developing breast cancer highlights the need for more cancer prevention options, according to a Purdue University breast-cancer expert.
 Jolie wrote in a New York Times op-ed that she decided to have the procedure, in which all or part of the breast is removed, after learning she carries a mutation of the BRCA1 gene that brings increased risk of developing breast and ovarian cancers.
 "The decision more women are making to undergo this procedure shows a changing perspective on cancer and the need to focus more attention on alternative prevention strategies," said Sophie Lelièvre, who co-leads the International Breast Cancer and Nutrition Collaboration.
 "Avoiding the disease is always better than having to treat it. "For decades most of the funding has gone to research in cancer detection and treatment, and, meanwhile, more and more women have been diagnosed with breast cancer.
 We need to find acceptable and affordable ways to prevent the disease, not just identify and treat it. I hope that high-profile examples of the lengths to which women will go in an effort to reduce their cancer risk will help usher in a new era of prevention research.
" The goal of the International Breast Cancer and Nutrition Collaboration is to develop new methods to assess breast cancer risk for all women and to design sustainable prevention strategies, she said.
 "Paradoxically, over the past few years physicians have made continuous efforts to preserve the breast of women with breast cancer during surgery associated with treatment, yet radical mastectomy is now promoted in women who are healthy and cancer free," she said.
 "There are no options to decrease breast cancer risk aside from radical surgery or treatment with estrogen inhibitors that have very serious side effects.
 These options are only appropriate for women at very high risk of developing the disease. In addition, these options are mainly considered for women in the U.S.
 and may not be suitable for women in countries where access to quality health care is less available or, whether either culturally or legally, these preventive options are not currently possible, but breast cancer is no less prevalent.
" Lelièvre (pronounced Le-LEE-YEA-vre) is associate director of collaborative science in the Purdue Center for Cancer Research and an associate professor of basic medical sciences in Purdue's College of Veterinary Medicine.
 She identified subtle changes in normal-appearing breast tissue that appear necessary for cancer development and could be used to help determine a woman's risk of developing breast cancer.
 She also helped implement a new imaging technology to reveal these breast tissue changes. The imaging technology can be used to screen for harmful and protective factors for the breast and was used to show that a fatty acid found in some foods influences this early precancerous stage.
 She also led a team that reproduced portions of the female breast in a tiny slide-sized model dubbed "breast on-a-chip" that will be used to test nanomedical approaches for the detection and treatment of breast cancer.
 Lelièvre recently used the breast-on-a-chip model as a basis to discuss how models to study breast cancer risk should be designed in an article titled "Building risk-on-a-chip models to improve breast cancer risk assessment and prevention" published in the journal 
Integrative Biology. Lelièvre is co-chair of the upcoming fourth international breast cancer prevention symposium in Beirut, Lebanon, this October.
 Purdue team creates 'engineered organ' model for breast cancer research </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/annual-crop-adviser-conference-set-for-dec.-17-18.html
<Content> Annual crop adviser conference set for Dec. 17-18
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Improving crop stress tolerance, enhancing water quality, maximizing yield and decreasing the risks associated with shifting weed, disease and weather constraints to crop production are the themes of this year's Indiana Certified Crop Adviser Conference Dec.
 17-18 in Indianapolis. The annual two-day conference is designed to allow Certified Crop Advisers, or CCAs, the opportunity to earn up to 16 continuing education credits.
 Sessions will be presented by experts from companies and eight universities, including Purdue. "We have a total of 37 speakers on topics relevant to nutrient, soil and water, pest and crop management, as well as specialty sessions covering irrigation and new technology tools for crop consultants," said Tony Vyn, conference co-chair and Purdue Extension agronomist.
 A list of presentation topics and speakers is available on the Indiana CCA website at http://www.indianacca.org/. Most sessions will be offered twice - once in the morning and once in the afternoon - so participants can choose different topics.
 While the conference is geared mainly toward CCAs and crop consultants, farmers, agribusiness professionals and graduate students also are welcome to attend.
 The conference will be at the Indianapolis Marriott East, 7202 E. 21st St. The hotel is offering a special rate of $90 per night to participants who reserve their rooms by Dec.
 3. Reservations can be made by calling the hotel at 800-228-9290 or 317-352-1231 and mentioning the Indiana Certified Crop Adviser Group to receive the conference rate.
 Registration includes educational sessions, access to presentation PDF files, lunches, refreshments and a Tuesday evening reception.
 For CCAs, the price is $195 for both days or $100 for one day. For other attendees, the conference costs $300 for both days or $150 for one day.
 Participants can register online at http://www.indianacca.org/register/5/1/ until Dec. 10. Questions about the conference should be directed to the Indiana CCA office, 217-762-7955 or to Lisa Green in the Department of Agronomy, 765-494-4783.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/annual-crop-adviser-conference-set-for-dec.-17-18.html
<Content> Annual crop adviser conference set for Dec. 17-18
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Improving crop stress tolerance, enhancing water quality, maximizing yield and decreasing the risks associated with shifting weed, disease and weather constraints to crop production are the themes of this year's Indiana Certified Crop Adviser Conference Dec.
 17-18 in Indianapolis. The annual two-day conference is designed to allow Certified Crop Advisers, or CCAs, the opportunity to earn up to 16 continuing education credits.
 Sessions will be presented by experts from companies and eight universities, including Purdue. "We have a total of 37 speakers on topics relevant to nutrient, soil and water, pest and crop management, as well as specialty sessions covering irrigation and new technology tools for crop consultants," said Tony Vyn, conference co-chair and Purdue Extension agronomist.
 A list of presentation topics and speakers is available on the Indiana CCA website at http://www.indianacca.org/. Most sessions will be offered twice - once in the morning and once in the afternoon - so participants can choose different topics.
 While the conference is geared mainly toward CCAs and crop consultants, farmers, agribusiness professionals and graduate students also are welcome to attend.
 The conference will be at the Indianapolis Marriott East, 7202 E. 21st St. The hotel is offering a special rate of $90 per night to participants who reserve their rooms by Dec.
 3. Reservations can be made by calling the hotel at 800-228-9290 or 317-352-1231 and mentioning the Indiana Certified Crop Adviser Group to receive the conference rate.
 Registration includes educational sessions, access to presentation PDF files, lunches, refreshments and a Tuesday evening reception.
 For CCAs, the price is $195 for both days or $100 for one day. For other attendees, the conference costs $300 for both days or $150 for one day.
 Participants can register online at http://www.indianacca.org/register/5/1/ until Dec. 10. Questions about the conference should be directed to the Indiana CCA office, 217-762-7955 or to Lisa Green in the Department of Agronomy, 765-494-4783.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/anonymous-gift-adds-1-million-to-nursing,-veterinary-scholarship-funds.html
<Content> Anonymous gift adds $1 million to nursing, veterinary scholarship funds
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University has announced a $1 million gift to fund scholarships in the School of Nursing and College of Veterinary Medicine.
 The donors, a couple, made the anonymous estate gift to continue the funding of nursing and veterinary medicine scholarships that they initiated in 2010.
 "The donors' love for Purdue and their passion for the School of Nursing and their animals inspired these gifts," President Mitch Daniels said.
 "Their loyalty and generosity will make it possible for students in these programs to realize their educational and career goals.
" In the School of Nursing, the funds support scholarships for undergraduate students based on academic merit and financial need.
 The scholarships are renewable if recipients continue to meet the eligibility criteria. The College of Veterinary Medicine scholarship is named in honor of the couple's Dobermans, Aristotle and Beatrice Boilermaker Gold.
 Scholarships go to third- or fourth-year doctor of veterinary medicine students based on academic merit and financial need. The gift was announced Friday (April 12) at a luncheon celebrating the School of Nursing's 50th anniversary.
 Source: Mitch Daniels, president@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/applications-available-for-purdue-alpha-chi-omega-arts-scholarship.html
<Content> Applications available for Purdue Alpha Chi Omega arts scholarship
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. —Applications are available for the Purdue University Alpha Chi Omega chapter scholarship, which is awarded each year to a student whose college career has been touched by the arts.
 The annual scholarship, which was endowed in 2002, is awarded to a Purdue student who has demonstrated excellence in visual or performing arts either through a major in arts or as a non-arts major who is eligible through participation in campus arts organizations.
 Applications must be submitted by 5 p.m. Feb. 15. Freshmen, sophomores and juniors with a minimum grade point average of 3.0 and a previous semester index of 2.5 are eligible.
 The scholarship will be awarded for use during the 2013-2014 academic year. Applications for the scholarship are available at Yue-Kong Pao Hall of Visual and Performing Arts, Purdue Musical Organizations, Purdue Bands, Office of the Dean of Students, Student Activities and Organizations, Black Cultural Center, the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs, and College of Liberal Arts Dean's Office.
 Alpha Chi Omega was founded in 1885 at DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind., by seven women from the school of music. Today the women's fraternity is on more than 132 campuses.
 Purdue's chapter was chartered in 1918 and is the 25th oldest chapter in the nation. Contact: Barbara Dixon, associate dean for administration in the College of Liberal Arts, 765-494-3731, 
dixonb@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/appointments,-honors-and-activities.html
<Content> Appointments, honors and activities
 - The College of Technology topped several categories of the 2012 Profiles of Engineering and Engineering Technology Colleges. Among the 99 institutions in the nation offering engineering technology programs, Purdue had the most bachelor's degrees awarded, most bachelor's degrees awarded to women, the largest total and graduate enrollment, and largest number of graduate degrees awarded.
 - Purdue graduate John W. Boudreau has received the 2013 Michael R. Losey Human Resource Research Award for his work linking research on human resource management to tangible strategic impact in the business world.
 The award, presented by the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM), the HR Certification Institute and the SHRM Foundation, comes with a $50,000 prize.
 Boudreau holds master's and doctorate degrees in industrial administration from Purdue. He is professor of management and organization in the Marshall School of Business and director of research at the Center for Effective Organizations at the University of Southern California.
 The award, named in honor of a former SHRM president and CEO, recognizes academics or experts whose research significantly advances the field of human resource management.
 - Purdue University landscape architecture undergraduate students have earned several awards at competitions involving students from across the U.S.
 and around the world. The awards, announced Oct. 1, were among 26 given for projects selected from 391 entries submitted by students at 91 schools.
 In the student competition of the American Society of Landscape Architects, Zhicheng (Daniel) Xu of Chengdu, China, won an Award of Excellence in the category of analysis and planning for "A 30-Year Plan for the Wabash River Corridor in Lafayette, Ind.
," which seeks to strike a balance between culture and nature. Xu's project also won the Award of Excellence in the state competition for students at Purdue and Ball State University.
 Two projects received an Award of Honor - the second-highest award - in the national competition. Lana Merrill of Valparaiso, Ind.
, and Camille Mahan of Wildwood, Ill., were recognized in the category of analysis and planning for "Reshaping Our University's Campus for an Ecology Sound Future," a project preserving the character of Purdue's landscape while lessening its environmental imprint through storm water management.
 Zheming Cai of Wuhan, China, received the award in the general design category for "Preservation as Provocation: Redefining Tourism," which provides an individualized tourist experience at Shute's Folly Island in Charleston Harbor, S.C.
 Merrill's and Mahan's project also received an Award of Honor in the state competition. All students except Xu graduated in May.
 Xu is now serving an internship. - Aviation Technology graduate student Wesley Major was presented with a volunteer service award for coordinating the five-week Able Flight program that helps disabled would-be pilots earn their pilot license.
 Professional flight major Nick Losande was named Able Flight's Flight Instructor of the Year. Major and aviation management major Kevin Crombie were awarded Able Flight scholarships.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/appointments,-honors-and-activities1.html
<Content> Appointments, honors and activities
 - The School of Nursing unveiled a new painting for Johnson Hall that will hang in the building's east stairwell to commemorate the school's 50th anniversary and pay tribute to the school's founder, Helen R.
 Johnson. The painting, by muralist Kathleen L. McCann, was celebrated on Sept. 27 during a Homecoming reception for Nursing alumni, students and friends.
 The painting features Helen R. Johnson, as well as nurses in various areas of the field caring for patients. The painting is a gift from McCann and her husband Jack Warner, a 1953 Purdue alumnus from science, who are both friends of the Purdue School of Nursing and who live in Barrington, Ill.
 The School of Nursing is housed in the College of Health and Human Sciences. The framing and frame were donated by Karla and Randy Ross of Randy Ross Custom Framing in Lafayette.
 - Global ReOrient: Chinese Pentecostal/Charismatic Movements in the Global East symposium is Oct. 30-31. This Center on Religion and Chinese Society event is free and open to the public, but registration is required.
 RSVP by email to CRCS@purdue.edu. Both days are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Stewart Center, Room 214. A program is available at http://www.purdue.edu/crcs
. The symposium also is sponsored by International Programs, Asian Studies, American Studies and Religious Studies. - The Indiana Pharmacists Alliance selected Gloria Sachdev as the recipient of the 2013 Excellence in Innovation Award for outstanding advancement of pharmacy practice.
 The alliance recognized Sachdev, a clinical assistant professor of pharmacy practice, for her promotion of new models of health care delivery and education that capitalize on pharmacists as vital members of the health care team.
 The alliance also sited her work in Cummins, Indiana to create collaborative practice agreements between pharmacies and local physicians, and partnerships with hospitals to provide transitions of care services.
 The National Alliance of State Pharmacy Associations coordinates the award, which is sponsored by Upsher-Smith Laboratories, Inc, and presented annually by participating state pharmacist associations.
 - Teasa Thompson received a Cancer Control Champion award from the Indiana Cancer Consortium at the 2013 annual meeting. Thompson is the program manager of the Purdue University Center for Cancer Research's Affecting Cancer Together barbershop initiative and is Indiana's prostate cancer health education specialist.
 The awards are given to members of the consortium who exhibit leadership in implementing the Indiana Cancer control plan through participation in its action teams, committees and through local cancer control coalitions.
 Thompson was recognized for her launch of the Affecting Cancer Together program and leadership role in the Indiana Black Barbershop Health Initiative.
 The mission of Purdue's Affecting Cancer Together program, or ACT, is primary prevention of cancer and other chronic diseases in Indiana through awareness and education, providing a bridge to health resources and services and developing health leaders, lay health educators and health motivators in the community.
 More information about the program is available at http://www.cancerresearch.purdue.edu/about/act - Won Sik Yang, a Purdue University professor of nuclear engineering, has been recognized as a Fellow of the American Nuclear Society.
 Yang specializes in areas including nuclear reactor physics, computational methods for reactor analysis and "fast reactors," a technology under development that promises to be more efficient, safer and less expensive to operate than conventional power plants.
 He is credited with development of the world's premier reactor physics software package for fast reactor analysis. Before joining Purdue, he was the Senior/Principal Nuclear Engineer at Argonne National Laboratory.
 He will be presented with the honor on Nov. 11 during the society's 2013 winter meeting in Washington, D.C. - Purdue's Office of Marketing and Media has earned a Silver Award from the W3 Awards for its work on the University's "Think Summer" website.
 The W3 Awards honor outstanding websites, web marketing, web video, and mobile applications created by agencies, designers, and creators worldwide.
 The W3 is sanctioned and judged by the International Academy of the Visual Arts. Marketing and Media staff involved in the "Think Summer" project are David Allen, Araz Brifcani, Pat Brown, Kim Delker, Johnna Dexter-Weins, Will Gwin, Nick Rambo and Yoko White.
 To see the website, go to http://www.purdue.edu/thinksummer/ - Two Purdue pharmacy students raised more than $3,400 to help veterans.
 Inspired by Eric Greitens book "The Heart and the Fist," third-year pharmacy students Michael Frazier and Aubrie Wnek participated in the Ironman triathlon in Louisville, Ky.
 to raise funds for the author's "The Mission Continues" program. The program helps post-911 veterans transition to civilian life through fellowships that allow them to give back through community service.
 Frazier, from New Albany, Ind., finished the 2.4 mile swim, 112 miles bike ride and 26.2 mile marathon 75th out of 106 for men in his age group and Wnek, of Hawthorn Woods, Ill.
, finished 14th out of 23 for women in her age group. - Five professionals received Outstanding Food Science Awards on Oct. 10 from Purdue University's Department of Food Science.
 The award, created in 2000, recognizes individuals who have significantly contributed to the food science profession and Purdue's Department of Food Science.
 Criteria for the recognition are based upon evidence of excellence in industry, academic, government or other endeavors related to food science.
 Each of the recipients, all Purdue graduates, are: Nancie Corum-Oxley of Lawton, Mich., the award-winning head winemaker at St. Julian Winery in Paw Paw, Mich.
, and the first professional commercial female winemaker in that state: Claudia Fajardo-Lira of Culver City, Calif., professor of food science in the Department of Family Consumer Sciences at California State University Northridge; Diane Hnat of Danbury, Conn.
, senior technical marketing manager at DSM Nutritional Products, formerly Roche Vitamins Inc.; Mohamed Obanni of Davis, Calif., senior director of technical services, aseptic and refrigerated business at The Hain Celestial Group; and Dianne Ripberger of Plano, Texas, research and development director of quality innovation, information systems, and ingredient quality assurance at Frito Lay North America, a division of PepsiCo.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/appointments,-honors-and-activities2.html
<Content> Appointments, honors and activities
 - Michael Beach is the manager of Boiler Television. He has extensive experience in audio and HD video production as well as many years in customer service with Zurich Financial Services group.
 He earned a bachelor's degree in telecommunications from Ball State University and an MBA from Indiana Wesleyan University. - Purdue's College of Technology on Feb.
 1, 2014 is hosting the regional competition for the Phoenix Contact Nanoline Contest in which student teams build machines or devices highlighting the capability of Phoenix Contact controllers.
 Teams must register by Oct. 18. For more information and to register, go to https://tech.purdue.edu/newsroom/nanoline-2014-contest-deadline-oct-18
. The contest provides equipment and money to build the machines. Winning teams advance to the national championship in Pennsylvania in February.
 - John Buzacott, professor emeritus of the Schulich School of Business at York University in Toronto, will give the Moshe M. Barash Memorial Lecture at 2:30 p.m.
 Oct. 25 at Krannert Auditorium. The talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Evolution of OR: From Operational Research to OM and Policy Analysis.
" Buzacott is a scholar and expert in manufacturing systems, operations management, and services. The Moshe M. Barash lecture is named for the late Ransburg Professor Emeritus of Manufacturing Engineering and 
Industrial Engineering. A leader in the field of manufacturing science and engineering, Barash retired from Purdue in 1992 and died in 2006.
 Among his major contributions was his pioneering research into the use of computers for factory planning and scheduling, including automatic process planning and computerized manufacturing systems.
 Barash also made significant contributions to the automated design of manufacturing systems, precision engineering, robot applications, and computer-aided manufacturing.
 - Jamie Schoenbeck-Walsh and Stephen Adams received teaching awards during the recent College of Veterinary Medicine's fall conference.
 Schoenbeck-Walsh, a veterinary technology program instructor and academic adviser, received the Elanco Veterinary Technology Outstanding Teaching Award.
 Recipients of the award are determined by a vote by veterinary technology students. Her combined 26 years of experience includes private practice work and four years on staff in the Purdue Veterinary Teaching Hospital.
 Adams, professor of large animal surgery, received the Raymond E. Plue Outstanding Teacher Award. The award was created to reward outstanding teachers who make an extra effort to influence and inspire students.
 The recipient is selected from nominations made by alumni in the three most recent graduating classes. Adams joined the PVM faculty in 1978.
 He earned his DVM degree at Cornell University and completed an internship and residency in large animal surgery at Purdue. Board certified by the American College of Veterinary Surgeons, Adams has served as president of the ACVS in 2010.
 For more on the awards, visit http://vet.purdue.edu/2013fallconference-review/index.php - Purdue University professor of agronomy and cropping systems Extension specialist Tony Vyn has been elected a fellow of the Crop Science Society of America.
 He will receive his fellowship on Nov. 6 at the international scientific society's annual meeting in Tampa, Fla. Members of the society nominate colleagues based on their professional achievements and meritorious service.
 The Crop Science Society of America, founded in 1955, is composed of more than 6,000 members. - Andrea Pearman has received the 2013 Women in Business Champion Award from the Northwest Indiana Small Business Development Center.
 A graduate of Purdue University Calumet, Pearman is the CEO of Diversified Marketing Strategies and is editor-in-chief of "Building Indiana" magazine.
 She also is executive director of the Northwest Indiana Business Roundtable. The award was part of the center's 22nd annual Entrepreneurial Excellence Awards.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/appointments,-honors-and-activities3.html
<Content> Appointments, honors and activities
 - Mike Savage, a 20-year public radio veteran who served most recently as director and general manager of WKCC-FM in Kankakee, Ill.
, has joined WBA as general manager. At WKCC, Savage established NPR affiliation, created membership and local news departments and launched a national version of its locally produced blues show on the Public Radio Satellite System.
 At WBAA, he will help oversee the station's nine-person staff as well as several local on-air. Savage was chosen following a national search to replace General Manager Tim Singleton, who retired in January.
 WBAA is at 920 on the AM dial and 101.3 on the FM dial. - Pixar co-founder Alvy Ray Smith will speak at 7 p.m. on Nov. 4 at Physics Building, Room 114.
 His presentation is titled "Digital Light." Smith helped pioneer SuperPaint, one of the first digital paint programs. He is credited with the invention of the HSV color space, the most widely used color space for computer graphics artists.
 He collaborated on the Renderman 3D software while working at Lucasfilm and co-founded Altamira. Among his long list of accolades and accomplishments are two Scientific and Engineering awards from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
 - Five electrical engineering technology alumni in the healthcare field will discuss Smart Health Technologies during a panel discussion at 1:30 p.m.
 on Nov. 8 in Fowler Hall. Panelists include: Michael Kelly, business leader, GE Lunar, Bone & Body Composition; Don Malackowski, director of advanced technologies development, Stryker Instruments; George Pazak, field service engineer, Philips; Ed Carlson, division director of engineering, Franciscan St.
 Elizabeth Health; and Karen Waninger, clinical engineering director, Community Health Networking, Inc. Part of the College of Technology's 50th anniversary celebration, the events were planned by the departments of Electrical and Computer Engineering Technology and Computer Graphics Technology.
 A full listing of the week’s events can be found at https://tech.purdue.edu/50th-anniversary - George Tsao, a Purdue University professor emeritus of chemical engineering and founder of the Laboratory of Renewable Resources Engineering, will be honored for his "leadership and early contributions to 21st century industrial biotechnology.
" He will receive the award on Nov. 12 from the Society for Commercial Development of Industrial Biotechnology during the 2nd International Forum on Commercializing Global Green: Markets from the Value Chain Perspective in Philadelphia.
 The society is an industry group affiliated with the Society of Chemical Manufacturers and Affiliates. - Three students from Purdue's Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship program presented their research at the annual Semiconductor Research Corp.
 TECHCON conference in September in Austin, Texas. The conference is designed to further growth and success in the semiconductor industry.
 The students are Alexander Muller, chemical engineering; Kaitlyn Fisher, mechanical engineering; and Christopher Robinson, mechanical engineering.
 Branden Burns, physics, also attended the conference.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/appointments,-honors-and-activities4.html
<Content> Appointments, honors and activities
 - Scott Downey has been named associate director of the Purdue Center for Professional Selling in the Department of Consumer Science.
 Downey is an associate professor in the Department of Agricultural Economics, where he teaches courses in sales and marketing. He also is associate director of the Center for Food and Agricultural Business.
 He has been at Purdue since 2000 after spending 15 years in the financial services industry. He earned his bachelor's degree at Purdue and has an MBA from California Polytechnic State University.
 The Purdue Center for Professional Selling serves students from all majors across campus who are interested in careers in professional sales.
 - Joe Anderson, head of Purdue University's Department of Agronomy, has been accepted for the Food Systems Leadership Institute, a two-year executive leadership development program for academia, industry and government.
 He begins work with the institute this fall. The institute enhances personal and professional development by emphasizing leadership competencies, skills for organizational change and a broad, interdisciplinary perspective of food systems.
 The institute is a program of the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, with the initial funding provided by the W.K.
 Kellogg Foundation. - Jennifer Asbury, an environmental technician with Radiological and Environmental Management, recently received the 2013 Tim Sullivan Memorial Award for outstanding service in food protection at the Indiana Environmental Health Association fall meeting.
 Asbury was recognized for her role in advancing the Indiana State Department of Health tablet-based inspection system and for implementation of the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration voluntary national retail food regulatory program standards. She also was recognized for her role in the investigation of a possible foodborne illness and subsequent presentations to food safety professionals.
 - Todd Wetzel, director of Purdue Convocations, served as a member of the jury last month for the final round of the Concert Artists Guild's 2013 Victory Elmaleh International Competition in New York City.
 For more than 10 years, Convocations has offered a performance prize to winners of the competition, presenting them in concert on the Convocations series and hosting them for educational residence activities in the area.
 This was Wetzel's fourth appearance as a member of the jury.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/appointments,-honors-and-activities5.html
<Content> Appointments, honors and activities
 - Purdue graduate Jim Mitchell is CEO of Fuhu, named Inc. Magazine's fastest growing privately held company for 2013. Fuhu creates children's products that are socially responsible and dedicated to the intellectual development of children.
 The company created the Nabi, the first Android tablet for children. Inc. says the company has grown 42,148 percent in three years.
 Mitchell earned a bachelor's degree from Krannert School of Management in 1989. Before joining Fuhu, he spent 19 years with the consulting firm Accenture, becoming a partner in 2000.
 Mitchell's father, Donald, is a retired Purdue philosophy professor. - Purdue alumnus Randall Hottle, a senior manager at Deloitte Consulting LLP, will receive a 40 Under 40 Recognition Award from M&A Advisor.
 M&A Advisor said the award winners were chosen for their accomplishments and contribution from a pool of nominees by an independent judging panel of business leaders.
 Hottle is being recognized in the service provider category. His area of focus at Deloitte is mergers and acquisition and turnaround/performance improvement.
 Prior to joining Deloitte, Hottle worked for six years at two medical device companies. He earned his MBA in finance and operations from the Krannert School of Management.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/appointments,-honors-and-activities6.html
<Content> Appointments, honors and activities
 - Bryan Hubbard has been named head of the Department of Building Construction Management Technology. Gary Bertoline, dean of the College of Technology, made the appointment, which is effective Sept.
 26. Hubbard, who came to Purdue in 2002, is an associate professor of building construction management. Zarjon Baha has been serving as interim department head.
 - Kevin Vedder of Human Resources has been appointed director of organizational change management. Vedder was formerly director of the Human Resources Service Center.
 - Teresa Wesner has been appointed director of the Human Resources Service Center. Wesner was formerly the HR customer service manager.
 - Steve Lovejoy, senior vice president, global planning and international supply chain operations for Starbucks Corp., will present "Innovation at Starbucks and the Impact on the Global Supply Chain" during a special College of Technology 50th anniversary event hosted by the Department of Technology Leadership and Innovation.
 He will speak at 7 p.m, on Sept. 10 in Stewart Center's Fowler Hall. His presentation will focus on innovation within the field of corporate supply chain management.
 - Nancy Rodibaugh and Rodney McPhail of Human Resources Communications have won awards in the annual APEX Awards for Publication Excellence.
 They were honored in the employee and benefits communication category for the Center for Healthy Living launch campaign. Rodibaugh also received an APEX award in the Interviews and Personal Profiles category for a feature she wrote for "Choose Well, Live Well," a publication of Human Resources Communications.
 The awards, sponsored by the publishers of the "Writing that Works" newsletter, draw thousands of entries annually and are in their 25th year.
 - The College of Health and Human Sciences Research Awardees for 2013 are Donald R. Lynam, professor of psychological sciences, and Michael G.
 Heinz, an associate professor of speech, language and hearing sciences. Lynam received the Research Achievement Award and Heinz received the Early Career Research Achievement Award.
 Both professors will give presentations about their work at the Health and Human Sciences Research Awards Day at 2:30-4 p.m. on Oct.
 22 in Stewart Center, Room 302-306. There also is a faculty poster session from 1-2:30 p.m. - Yi Kong, a doctoral student studying biology education, recently received a Love of Learning award by the Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi.
 She is one of a 147 recipients nationwide to receive the award, which is worth $500. The Love of Learning Award program was initiated in 2007 to help fund graduate or professional studies, doctoral dissertations, continuing education, career development and travel related to teaching and studies for active society members.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/appointments,-honors-and-activities7.html
<Content> Appointments, honors and activities
 - Anne Smith, distinguished professor of speech, language and hearing sciences, has been selected by the American Speech-Language Hearing Association to receive its Honors of the Association.
 This recognizes members for their distinguished contributions to the discipline of communication sciences and disorders and is the highest honor the association bestows.
 Smith, who is the co-director of the Purdue Stuttering Project, is known for her research in how the brain controls speech production, specifically with stuttering.
 Her research has been funded by the National Institute of Health's National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders for more than 25 years and has received more than $13 million in grant awards.
 She is one of 12 who will be recognized with this honor at the association's annual convention in November. - Lisa Goffman, professor of speech, language and hearing sciences, has been selected by the American Speech-Language Hearing Association to receive its Fellowship of the Association.
 Fellowship is one of the highest honors the association bestows, and to be awarded fellow, the nominee must have made outstanding contributions to the discipline of communication sciences and disorders.
 Her research focuses on the relationship between speech, language, and motor development in infants and children. She will be recognized with this honor at the association's annual convention in November.
 - Jeffrey Reuer, the Blake Family Endowed Chair in Strategic Management and Governance at the Krannert School of Management, has been elected a fellow of the Strategic Management Society.
 The award honors SMS members who have made significant contributions to the theory and practice of strategic management. Reuer in an associate editor of the Strategic Management Journal and has been active in the SMS.
 His research is in the area of corporate strategy, and his current work examines external corporate development activities and alliance governance.
 - The School of Aeronautics and Astronautics has announced its Outstanding Aerospace Engineers for 2013. Recipients have demonstrated excellence in industry, academia, governmental service or other endeavors that reflect the value of an aerospace engineering degree.
 The 2013 award winners are: * G. Porter Bridwell, retired director of NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center. He earned a bachelor's degree in aeronautical engineering from Purdue in 1958.
 * Jeffrey D. Deckelbaum, vice president of Boeing Defense, Space and Security. He earned a bachelor's degree in aeronautical and astronautical engineering from Purdue in 1977.
 * Edward A Morris, vice president of the National Center for Defense Manufacturing and director of the National Additive Manufacturing Innovation Institute.
 He earned a bachelor's degree in aeronautical and astronautical engineering from Purdue in 1971. * George M. Palmer, professor emeritus in the Purdue School of Aeronautics and Astronautics.
 He earned a bachelor's degree in aerospace engineering in 1945. * Jeffrey M. Tyrcha, vice president of business development and marketing, Adacel Systems.
 He earned a bachelor's degree in aeronautical and astronautical engineering in 1993. More information on the award winners can be found at 
https://engineering.purdue.edu/AAE/AboutUs/Alumni/oae/2013</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/appointments,-honors-and-activities8.html
<Content> Appointments, honors and activities
 - Eugenio Culurciello, an associate professor of biomedical engineering at Purdue University, has authored a book entitled "Biomedical Circuits and Systems," a field that requires an interdisciplinary background ranging from electrical engineering to biology and neuroscience.
 His research group in Purdue's Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering currently specializes in replicating human visual capabilities in robotic vision systems.
 The book is written to help build the foundation for researchers, engineers and students to further develop their interest and knowledge in the field of biomedical instrumentation and provide an overview of various biosensors by introducing fundamental building blocks for integrated biomedical systems.
 Information about the book is available at http://www.lulu.com/shop/eugenio-culurciello-and-wei-tang-and-evan-joon-hyuk-park-and-brian-goldstein/biomedical-circuits-and-systems/hardcover/product-21196906.html
 - Nathan Mosier, an associate professor of agricultural and biological engineering, is among 73 of the nation's most innovative, young engineering educators selected to take part in the National Academy of Engineering's fifth Frontiers of Engineering Education symposium.
 Faculty members who are developing and implementing innovative educational approaches in a variety of engineering disciplines will come together Oct.
 27-30 in Irvine, Calif., to share ideas and learn from research and best practice in education. They were nominated by fellow engineers or deans and chosen from a highly competitive pool of applicants.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/appointments,-honors-and-activities9.html
<Content> Appointments, honors and activities
 - Two Purdue College of Veterinary Medicine scholars along with two other veterinary medical education specialists have co-edited a book addressing the lack of diversity in veterinary medicine.
 Entitled "Navigating Diversity and Inclusion in Veterinary Medicine," the book is published by Purdue University Press and will be introduced to the Purdue community at a reception and program from 3:30-5 p.m.
 April 10 at the Purdue Black Cultural Center. The event is free and open to the public. Sandra F. San Miguel (Amass), Purdue Veterinary Medicine associate dean for engagement and Kauline Cipriani Davis, the college's director of diversity initiatives, co-edited the book with Lisa M.
 Greenhill, associate executive director for institutional research and diversity for the Association of American Veterinary Medical Colleges, and Patricia M.
 Lowrie, senior adviser to the dean of the Michigan State University College of Veterinary Medicine and director emeritus of the MSU Women's Resource Center.
 The team worked with representatives from all aspects of the veterinary profession to compile the book, which begins with the history of diversity in the veterinary profession in the context of historical changes and actions in U.S.
 society. It also discusses the need for a more diverse scientific workforce to feed the veterinary profession, presents strategies for attracting more students to the profession and includes best practices from other health professions.
 The book includes a foreword authored by Willie Reed, dean of Purdue Veterinary Medicine. - The African American Studies and Research Center received The Sankore Institutional Award for outstanding contributions to the development of the discipline of Africana Studies.
 The award presented at the 37th Annual Conference of the National Council for Black Studies in Indianapolis. The center is part of the College of Liberal Arts, and is led by Venetria Patton, the director and associate professor of English.
 - Sgt. Song Kang of the Purdue University Police Department received the west central chapter of Mothers Against Drunk Driving's 2012 Top Cop award on March 27 in Lafayette City Hall.
 The award goes to police officers who have logged the highest number of drunken driving arrests during the year. Last year, Kang made 27 of the department's 97 drunken driving arrests.
 The award consists of an inscribed plaque plate that will go on a wall plaque at PUPD's station. Kang has won the local chapter of MADD's Top Cop award every year since 2007.
 - Purdue North Central Chancellor James B. Dworkin has received the Ned E. Kalb Leadership Award, co-sponsored by the Purdue Extension Office of La Porte County and Leadership La Porte County.
 The award is presented annually to recognize a quiet, behind-the-scenes leader in La Porte County. In a letter of nomination for the award, Dworkin was described as "committed to improving the leadership skills of PNC students, employees and others in the communities PNC serves.
" Dworkin serves on a number of boards of directors and encourages PNC employees and students to volunteer in their communities. Since his arrival as PNC chancellor in 2000, Dworkin has worked to enhance higher education in LaPorte County.
 The campus student population has grown from 3,459 students to 6,048 students. The number of baccalaureate degree programs has increased from six to 22.
 To date, more than 11,000 PNC alumni have graduated and more than 85 percent of alumni reside in the PNC service area. - Biomedical engineering students from Purdue University are being recognized for developing the concept for a new type of diagnostic technology to help people suffering from peripheral neuropathy.
 The condition causes the loss of nerve activity in the extremities and affects 20 million people in the United States. The students call their concept NeurD, for Neuropathy Detector, which they developed as a senior design project.
 NeurD is envisioned as an automated system for recording measurements to track the progression of a patient's neuropathy. The NeurD concept has been accepted into "stage one" of a new E-Team Program, launched by the National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance to provide support for collegiate entrepreneurs working on market-based technology inventions.
 The stage-one designation earned the students $5,000 toward attending a three-day workshop focusing on formulating a sustainable business strategy.
 Thomas McNamara, a senior in biomedical engineering, leads the team. The other members of the team are Margaret Willenbrink, Adam Willats, Sandra Snyder and Julie DePauw, all juniors in biomedical engineering.
 The initial concept was introduced last semester during a biomedical engineering senior design course, a that team included McNamara and seniors Andrea Lawrence, Megan Kochert and Jennifer Waite.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/apps-may-open-communication-door-for-children,-families-affected-by-severe,-non-verbal-autism.html
<Content> Apps may open communication door for children, families affected by severe, non-verbal autism
 Oliver Wendt, a Purdue University assistant professor of speech, language and hearing sciences, demonstrates how the SPEAK all! app allows the user to select images to create a sentence.
 A version of SPEAK all! is available as a free download through the iTunes store, and a premium version will be available to purchase this summer.
 (Purdue Research Foundation photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Stephen and Diane Beaudoin have tried for years to fully communicate with their son, David, 11, who is diagnosed with severe, non-verbal autism.
 The Beaudoins credit SPEAK all!, an iPad application, with the enriched communication they now have with their son. David has been using SPEAK all!
 for about one year. "We've found that David is building real sentences that we weren't getting no matter how many times we mimicked the behavior we wanted from him," Stephen Beaudoin said.
 "SPEAK all! helped him complete more meaningful, interesting sentences, which led to more meaningful, interesting communication.
 He enjoys the interface, and this has helped him pick up SPEAK all! very quickly." David is one of many children who may be helped by the app.
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report that as many as 1 in 50 children in the United States has some form of autism.
 Developed at Purdue University, SPEAK all! helps children communicate by using photos and graphic symbols that represent what a child wishes to say and helps the child construct sentences.
 The app speaks the word or sentence, which allows a child to communicate a thought and reinforces the word to help the child learn to talk.
 SPEAK all! resulted from research by Oliver Wendt, a Purdue assistant professor of speech, language and hearing sciences, and was developed by Purdue's Engineering Projects in Community Service, or 
EPICS, program, with support from the Purdue Innovation and Commercialization Center. "There are varying degrees of autism severity and the most severe degree is the non-verbal where the child or young adult does not have natural speech to meet their daily communication needs," Wendt said.
 "Most children with severe autism learn to communicate by using a simple communication book where they pull pictures of what they want, such as a picture of an apple, and then they exchange the photo for what they want.
" Following nearly 20 years of research on using low-technology communication books and picture cards, Wendt and his team embraced using an iPad's interface for the same process, but in a simpler, less cumbersome way.
 A child affected by severe, non-verbal autism uses the SPEAK all! app to communicate with a student in Purdue's speech, language and hearing sciences department.
 (Purdue Research Foundation photo) Download Photo The app allows the child to choose several images to form a sentence such as "I want a big pretzel.
" The app can be customized for the child's interests, and the recording within the program can use the parent's or primary caregiver's voice.
 Ryan Schneider and Dorsey Armstrong, both associate professors in Purdue's Department of English, have used the SPEAK all! app with their daughter, Mallory, 7.
 "Mallory has been using SPEAK all! for a few months, and before it was such a struggle for her to explain to us her needs and wants," Armstrong said.
 "We've seen a marked improvement in Mallory – she enjoys using the iPad and her frustration level has dropped dramatically." "For most people a child with autism comes into their lives and suddenly they are faced with all these different challenges," Jeff Wallace said.
 "SPEAK all! is a straightforward approach to teaching communication to children." Children using the app also have experienced a physiological change in their neurological connections.
 "As part of our program, we do research on the neurophysiological effects of interventions like SPEAK all!," Wendt said. "We've found through neuroimaging that the brain activity moves to a more normal level during SPEAK all!
 intervention." A version of SPEAK all! is available as a free download through the iTunes store and a premium version will be released summer of 2013 for a nominal fee.
 Under development is a progressive version called SPEAK more!, which is designed for children who have advanced beyond using simple sentence structures.
 Wendt's research is sponsored by the Indiana Clinical and Translational Science Institute, a statewide project involving Purdue, Indiana University and the University of Notre Dame, and is funded by the National Institutes of Health, the Organization for Autism Research, and the Purdue University 
Center for Families. SPEAK all! and SPEAK more! are patented through the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization. For more information about developing and commercializing this innovation, contact the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization at 765-588-3470, 
otcpatent@prf.org. The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 Source: Oliver Wendt, 765-494-2462, olli@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/arizona-state-associate-dean-to-lead-new-honors-college.html
<Content> Arizona State associate dean to lead new Honors College
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Rhonda Phillips, associate dean of Barrett, The Honors College of Arizona State University, will be the dean of Purdue University's new 
Honors College. "Dean Phillips will provide the leadership that will help the new college move forward, focusing on academic excellence and attracting high-achieving students," said Timothy Sands, executive vice president for academic affairs and provost.
 "She has the passion and vision that makes her well-suited to carry out our goal of providing a challenging and rewarding experience for Purdue's top students.
" Phillips, who has been in her current position since 2011, also is a professor in the School of Community Resources and Development at Arizona State.
 She holds appointments as senior sustainability scientist in Arizona State's Global Institute of Sustainability/School of Sustainability, and affiliate faculty in the School of Geographical Sciences, Urban Planning and the School of Public Affairs.
 Prior to going to Arizona State in 2007, she was an assistant and associate professor in the Urban and Regional Planning Department at the University of Florida, where she also was the founding director of the Center for Building Better Communities.
 Before that, she served as an assistant professor in the Department of Geography and Area Development at the University of Southern Mississippi.
 Phillips' appointment as dean is the result of a national search. She will begin at Purdue before the fall semester. Her appointment is subject to ratification by Purdue's Board of Trustees.
 "It is with tremendous pride and enthusiasm that I take on the leadership of the Honors College," Phillips said. "This is an exciting opportunity to continue to build an environment that enhances the success of the college's outstanding students.
" The Honors College, approved by the trustees in 2011, will welcome its first class of more than 500 new students this fall. The college will recruit prospective honors students and provide them with residential learning experiences, exposure to cross-disciplinary problem solving and support in pursuit of post-graduate opportunities.
 "The pool of finalists was an exceptional group of candidates, and we appreciate everyone who was involved in the process," said Mark J.T.
 Smith, dean of the Graduate School and search advisory committee chair. "Dean Phillips will be a great leader and advocate for Purdue's Honor College.
" Dennis Savaiano, professor of nutrition science who is interim dean of the Honors College and headed a task force on its formation, will remain at Purdue.
 "Dr. Savaiano provided strong and steady leadership during the formation of the Honors College," Sands said. "We are grateful for his hard work and service in this endeavor over the past three years.
" Savaiano was dean of consumer and family sciences from 1995-2010. He has studied lactose intolerance for more than 25 years, identifying dietary factors that can promote adequate calcium intake for the 25 percent of the U.S.
 population and 75 percent of the world's population that suffer from the problem. "Dean Savaiano will spend the next year studying nutrition and food policy, with the aim of developing a center that integrates disciplinary perspectives to inform policymakers on scientifically sound approaches to solving global nutrition problems including obesity and under-nutrition," Sands said.
 Sources: Timothy Sands, executive vice president for academic affairs and provost, 765-494-9709, tsands@purdue.edu Rhonda Phillips, 602-496-0160, 
Rhonda.phillips@asu.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/armstrong-memorialized-at-purdue-service.html
<Content> Armstrong memorialized at Purdue service
 Purdue alumnus and NASA astronaut Gregory Harbaugh speaks Monday (Aug. 27) at a student-organized memorial service for Neil Armstrong.
 (Purdue University photo/Andrew Hancock) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Neil A. Armstrong, the first human to set foot on the moon, was lauded as "an exemplary Boilermaker and an extraordinary American" during a memorial service Monday (Aug.
 27) at Purdue University. Joe Rust, president of Purdue Student Government, which organized the service, told a crowd of more than 1,000 people near Armstrong's statue at the Neil Armstrong Hall of Engineering that the astronaut "inspired us to go beyond the classroom, beyond our boundaries and even challenged us to go beyond Earth.
" Armstrong, who died Saturday (Aug. 25) at age 82, earned a bachelor's degree in aeronautical engineering from Purdue in 1955. He was awarded an honorary doctorate in engineering from Purdue in 1970.
 On July 20, 1969, he became the first person to walk on the moon as commander of Apollo 11. Gregory Harbaugh, an astronaut who graduated from Purdue in 1978, said Armstrong provided valuable lessons for all the astronauts who followed him.
 "What I learned from Neil is to learn from what you encounter and prepare, prepare, prepare for anything because you never know what might happen," said the veteran of four NASA space flights, including the second Hubble Space Telescope servicing mission in 1997.
 "That's what we did on the Hubble mission. It's not that you have to be perfect every moment. We learn all along the way. Neil and all those guys set the tone, set the expectation.
" Stuart Shippee, a Purdue student in the School of Aeronautics and Astronautics who also is in the Air Force ROTC, said Armstrong is the reason he came to Purdue.
 A statue of Neil Armstrong as a Purdue student stands near the entrance of the Neil Armstrong Hall of Engineering on the university's campus.
 (Purdue University photo/Andrew Hancock) Download Photo "He's had a great impact on you and all of us," he said. "I came here with the goal to follow in his legendary footsteps, and I am not alone.
 He has inspired many people to come here. "I had the opportunity to have dinner with him on one of his visits here. He constantly encouraged me to study hard, do my best and told me that limits are made to be pushed.
 His legacy to us is that any of us, with hard work and Purdue's help, can do amazing things one day." "He was a reluctant hero, and whenever he visited Purdue, he was more interested in talking to the students about their exciting future and not his legendary past," he said.
 Other speakers at the service included Leah Jamieson, Purdue's John A. Edwardson Dean of Engineering; Tom Shih, head of the School of Aeronautics and Astronautics; and John Norberg, author of "Wings of their Dreams," a book about Purdue's role in aviation history.
 The Purdue "All-American" Marching Band opened the ceremony by playing the "Purdue Hymn." As a student, Armstrong played the baritone horn in the band.
 Phi Delta Theta, the fraternity of which Armstrong was a member at Purdue, conducted a memorial ceremony, and the Purdue Glee Club closed the service by singing the national anthem as the Purdue Air Force ROTC honor guard presented the colors.
 Tributes to Armstrong also can be made at a special Purdue website, "Neil Armstrong and Purdue," by going to http://www.purdue.edu/armstrong, clicking on the "In Tribute" link and scrolling to the bottom of the page.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/artspowers-little-engine-that-could-comes-to-lafayette.html
<Content> ArtsPower's 'Little Engine That Could' comes to Lafayette
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.— ArtsPower's "The Little Engine That Could Earns Her Whistle" will come to the Long Center in downtown Lafayette at 3 p.m.
 Oct. 13. The performance is presented by Purdue Convocations. The performance also includes a pre-show activity free for ticket holders at 2 p.m.
 The Tippecanoe County Historical Association will provide a small exhibit on local railroad history. Also, the Boilermaker Xtra Special will be on hand for photos.
 "Little Engine That Could" is an upbeat, family musical about a classic character. Little Blue Engine dreams of someday leaving the train yard to pull the big cars on the mainline track.
 But can she convince Big Silver that she is worthy of being a mainline engine? ArtsPower's song-filled adventure portrays Watty Piper's tale about hard work, determination, and the importance of working together.
 Tickets are $20 for adults and $12 for children 18 years and younger, Purdue students and Ivy Tech Lafayette students. Tickets are available at the Elliott Hall and Stewart Center box offices at 765-494-3933, 800-914-SHOW or online through www.convocations.org.
 Tickets are also available through Ticketmaster outlets. Initiated in 1902, Purdue Convocations was one of the first professional performing arts presenters in the United States.
 Each year, Convocations offers the region 20-30 performances of widely varying genres. Purdue Convocations aims to promote frequent exposure to and familiarity with human cultural expression in a multitude of forms and media.
 Note to Journalists: Publication-quality photographs are available at http://www.convocations.org/press </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/assistive-technology-available-at-most-benefits-enrollment-walk-in-labs.html
<Content> Assistive technology available at most benefits enrollment walk-in labs
 Thanks to collaboration between ITaP and Human Resources, assistive technology will be installed at most benefits open enrollment walk-in labs at the West Lafayette campus.
 Locations offering assistive technology are indicated in the Benefits Open Enrollment Guide and are listed at the Benefits website at 
www.purdue.edu/hr/Benefits/Medical/2014sessions.html. According to Dean Brusnighan, assistive technology specialist in ITaP, the following assistive software will be available:
 * JAWS: A text-to-speech software that enables people with severe visual impairments to use a computer. * ZoomText: A screen magnifier software that increases the size of text and images on a computer screen.
 * Read&Write Gold: A text-to-speech software that assists people with learning disabilities. Text on a computer screen is highlighted as it is read aloud.
 Those wishing to use JAWS or Read&Write Gold must bring their own headphones. None will be supplied, and built-in speakers may not be used for confidentiality reasons.
 For more information about the assistive technology, call Brusnighan at 49-49082 or email him at dabrus@purdue.edu. For open enrollment information, go to 
www.purdue.edu/benefits/enroll.hmtl or contact the Human Resources Service Center at 49-42222, hr@purdue.edu or www.purdue.edu/hrhelp
.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/assistive-wheelchair-tray-could-help-people-with-disabilities-use-ipads,-other-mobile-devices-more-easily.html
<Content> Assistive wheelchair tray could help people with disabilities use iPads, other mobile devices more easily
 Assistive wheelchair tray could help people with disabilities use iPads, other mobile devices more easily Alexander Lo, a researcher in the Purdue Center for Paralysis Research, uses an iPad on the RoboDesk.
 The RoboDesk is an assistive technology being developed at Purdue University to help people with disabilities use iPads and other mobile devices more easily.
 (Purdue Research Foundation photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – "RoboDesk," a motorized wheelchair tray, could provide people with disabilities with an efficient and easy-to-use method to more easily position and remove an iPad or other mobile devices without being limited by a table or moving in and out of the chair.
 Brad Duerstock, a Purdue University associate professor of engineering practice in the Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering and School of Industrial Engineering, is developing the technology and other assistance technologies in the Purdue Institute for Accessible Science.
 "Our primary goal is to foster independence and improve quality of life, and one area that is a challenge that I've had and what I have witnessed other people having is easy access to using mobile devices like iPads and smartphones," said Duerstock, director of the Purdue institute and a quadriplegic.
 "Right now wheelchair users, especially those with upper limb mobility limitations, do not have an easy way to place a mobile device in their lap and then retract the device when not in use.
 The RoboDesk does that." The RoboDesk uses a motorized mount on a wheelchair that utilizes an arm to deploy or retract a mobile electronic device such as a tablet or lightweight notebook.
 The assistive tray's multifunctional design enables it to be used for other purposes, as well, such as a writing surface or meal tray.
 The mount for the RoboDesk does not exceed the width of a wheelchair, which is important to users because it does not impede their ability to maneuver through doorways.
 "We've designed the RoboDesk so it does not affect a wheelchair's normal seat functions such as tilting, reclining or elevating, and it does not inhibit the user's ability to transfer in and out of a wheelchair," Duerstock said.
 "It is extremely versatile." Duerstock is working to make the RoboDesk compatible with various types of manual and electric or battery-operated wheelchairs.
 Brad Duerstock, a Purdue University associate professor of engineering practice in the Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering and School of Industrial Engineering, is developing the technology and other assistance technologies in the Purdue Institute for Accessible Science.
 (Purdue Research Foundation photo) Download Photo "My goal is to get the RoboDesk licensed and manufactured within the next three years," he said.
 Duerstock has a second goal as well and that is to encourage more people with disabilities to pursue higher education, particularly in the sciences.
 "Only 2 percent of people working in the sciences age 35 or younger have a disability; however, people with disabilities represent 10.4 percent of the overall U.S.
 workforce," Duerstock said. "I believe we are losing a lot of talented people who could make a difference if they're given the tools and opportunities to succeed.
 I want to make it easier for them to actively participate in their educational endeavors." "Innovations like the RoboDesk are really essential for getting people with mobility loss into the lab with more tools at their disposal so they can do what they want to do," said Booksh.
 "It can help level the playing field for students and researchers." A 2011 National Science Foundation study showed that more than 300 people with disabilities earned their doctorate degrees in science and engineering fields in 2008.
 The RoboDesk and Purdue University's other patented technologies include new cancer treatments, alternative fuels, biomedical devices and crop improvement, and are available for licensing through the 
Office of Technology Commercialization. For more information, call 765-588-3475, email otcip@prf.org or visit http://otc-prf.org/available-technologies
. The Purdue Institute for Accessible Science (pdf) was established with a $2 million grant from the National Institutes of Health Director's Pathfinder Award in October 2010 and operates out of the Hall of Discovery and Learning Research in Purdue's Discovery Park.
 It was one of six such research centers funded as part of the NIH Director's ARRA Pathfinder Award to Promote Diversity in the Scientific Workforce.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/asteroid-expert-says-surveillance-is-key-to-survival-planning-is-key-to-defense.html
<Content> Asteroid expert says surveillance is key to survival; planning is key to defense
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — For the threat of meteor strikes large or small, early detection is key, and evacuation may be the only defense needed within the next 1,000 years, according to an asteroid impact expert.
 The best investment in asteroid defense is not in weapons to deflect them, but in telescopes and surveys to find them, said H. Jay Melosh, co-author of the 2010 National Research Council report "Defending Planet Earth" that explored the feasibility of detecting all Earth-crossing asteroids greater than 140 meters in diameter and ways to mitigate their hazard.
 "At this point we've found more than 90 percent of the large, civilization-ending asteroids that cross the Earth's orbit and none are threatening us, which lets us breathe a little easier for the next 1,000 years or so; but there are limits to this search," said Melosh, a distinguished professor of earth, atmospheric and planetary sciences and physics at Purdue University.
 "We need to invest in telescopes that can find asteroids on Earth's sunward side, our current blindspot, and in programs to find and track the smaller asteroids, which are less devastating but far more likely to strike us.
" Strikes along the lines of the Chelyabinsk meteor, which hit Russia in February, are of the greatest concern for the time being, he said.
 "If we could have detected the Chelyabinsk asteroid and had tools in place to quickly assess the impact scenario, an evacuation of the area would have prevented many injuries," Melosh said.
 "Much like we do for hurricanes, the best option is often to get people out of harm's way and prepare for the impact." Melosh is currently working to refine an asteroid impacts effects calculator he developed so that it could be used in such situations.
 The calculator, "Impact: Earth!" estimates the damage that an asteroid strike would cause if it hit the Earth. It accurately estimated most aspects of the Chelyabinsk impact in a retroactive test, including strike zone, atmospheric blast wave and ground shaking, but was slightly off in estimates of how far the air blast would reach and shatter windows within the city, he said.
 Melosh is working to better understand and calculate this effect in a city environment and to improve the precision of other calculations.
 "It wouldn't take a large amount of money to create civil defense plans for the unlikely event of a small meteor strike," he said.
 "For larger meteors that would require a more proactive defense, improved surveillance could give us a century of advance notice and plenty of time to create and deploy a deflection tool.
" In addition to his expertise in the effects of asteroid impacts, Melosh has been involved in asteroid deflection research for years.
 He was a co-investigator on NASA's 2005 Deep Impact mission, which successfully targeted and hit a comet with a spacecraft. He also developed an approach to deflect an asteroid through the evaporative effects of focused sunlight in 1993.
 A paper detailing this work was published in the Nov. 4, 1993 issue of Nature. Note to Journalists: For information about broadcast-quality soundbites or uplinked interviews, please contact
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/astronaut-bridges-to-speak-on-campus.html
<Content> Astronaut Bridges to speak on campus
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University alumnus and astronaut Roy D. Bridges will speak on campus Oct. 25 about his experience in the space program.
 His talk, which is free and open to the public, begins at 8 p.m. in the Class of 1950 Lecture Hall. Bridges also will attend Purdue's annual Space Day on Oct.
 26. He will speak at 9:30 a.m. in Elliott Hall of Music. That event also is free and open to the public. Bridges earned a master's degree in astronautics from Purdue in 1966.
 He was pilot on a 1985 Space Shuttle Challenger flight and Spacelab 2 mission. He is a retired Air Force major general who held positions at NASA's Kennedy Space Center and Langley Research Center.
 More than 725 students in grades three to eight are registered for the 18th annual Purdue Space Day, which is filled to capacity.
 The participants come from 158 schools and home-school programs in five states. Space Day provides students the opportunity to learn about science, technology, engineering and math by participating in three age-appropriate activity sessions throughout the day.
 Grades three and four will build model spacecraft that will carry eggs dropped from a third-floor window. They also will become real rocket scientists when they deploy straw rockets, and will build and test balloon cars to introduce the concepts of basic physics.
 Grades five and six will deploy balloon satellites; learn the basic principles of astronomy by observing the night sky; and learn the fundamental principles of rocket propulsion by designing, constructing and testing their own stomp rocket.
 Grades seven and eight will design, build and test a high-powered water rocket; design, build and test a solar car; and with the aid of the EPICS team, build and test a trebuchet and airplane launch.
 Purdue Space Day is a student organization hosted by the School of Aeronautics and Astronautics. More information about Purdue Space Day is at 
http://www.purduespaceday.com Note to Journalists: Journalists wishing to interview Roy Bridges should contact Megan Bergman, 859-322-1995, 
mbergma@purdue.edu. Journalists planning on covering Space Day can get information on activity locations that day in the Armstrong Hall atrium.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/astronaut-buzz-aldrin-to-speak-at-purdue.html
<Content> Astronaut Buzz Aldrin to speak at Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Buzz Aldrin, the astronaut who walked on the moon with the late Neil Armstrong, will speak at Purdue University on Oct.
 16. Aldrin will discuss his new book, "Mission to Mars: My Vision for Space Exploration." He also will sign copies of the book. 
The presentation, "Buzz Aldrin's Unified Space Vision," will begin at 7 p.m. in the Purdue Memorial Union South Ballroom. Doors open at 6:40 p.m.
 with first-come limited seating. The event is free and open to the public. Aldrin will sign the book beginning at 8:15 p.m. in Union Room 118.
 Books will be available for purchase for $26 plus tax. Aldrin will not sign any items other than "Mission to Mars." In the book, Aldrin advocates for a continuing quest to push the boundaries of the universe.
 He lays out a plan for taking humans to Mars by 2035. Aldrin, 83, was born in Montclair, N.J. He graduated from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and earned a doctorate from MIT.
 He was in the third group of astronauts selected by NASA, joining the space program in 1963. In 1966 he set a new spacewalk record of 5-1/2 hours.
 And on July 20, 1969, he set foot on the moon, spending 21 hours on the lunar surface with Purdue alumnus Armstrong. Aldrin is the author of eight books, including a best-selling autobiography and children's books.
 Source: Kim Yoder, University Development Office associate director of special events, 765-494-0576, keyoder@purdue.edu Note to Journalists
: Media interested in covering Aldrin's talk should contact Judith Barra Austin, Purdue News Service, at 765-494-2432, jbaustin@purdue.edu
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/author-michelle-alexander-to-speak-at-purdue.html
<Content> Author Michelle Alexander to speak at Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Michelle Alexander, author of "The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness" and a civil rights lawyer and advocate, will speak at 7:30 p.m.
 on Nov. 14 in the Purdue Memorial Union South Ballroom. Her talk, "Mass Incarceration As The New Jim Crow," is free and open to the public and is part of the Cummings-Perrucci Lecture on Class, Race and Gender Inequality.
 There also will be a book signing at 9 p.m. Alexander's book won the 2011 NAACP Image Award for best nonfiction and also has been featured on national radio and television, including MSNBC, NPR, "Bill Moyers Journal," the "Tavis Smiley Show," C-SPAN and "Washington Journal.
" Alexander is a legal scholar who holds a joint appointment at the Kirwan Institute for the Study of Race and Ethnicity and the Moritz College of Law at The Ohio State University.
 Prior to joining the Kirwan Institute, she was an associate professor of law at Stanford Law School, where she directed the Civil Rights Clinics.
 She served as director of the Racial Justice Project of the American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California and also directed the Civil Rights Clinic at Stanford Law School, of which she is a graduate.
 This year's Cummings-Perrucci Lecture is hosted by the African American Studies and Research Center. The lecture rotates between the Department of Sociology; African American Studies; and Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.
 This event also is supported by the Black Cultural Center's Fall Cultural Arts Series, Purdue University Libraries, Purdue Division of Diversity and Inclusion, Purdue College of Liberal Arts, CLA Office of Interdisciplinary Studies and the Purdue Graduate School.
 Source: Venetria K. Patton, professor and director of African American Studies and Research Center, vpatton@purdue.edu College of Liberal Arts
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/award-winning-cio-reichental-to-talk-at-purdue-about-innovation,-open-data-in-local-government.html
<Content> Live web stream available for Reichental Lecture on Friday (Sept. 27)
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University Libraries Seminar Committee welcomes Jonathan Reichental, an award-winning CIO for Palo Alto, Calif.
, for a seminar on innovation and open data in local government. The presentation will take place on Friday (Sept. 27) from 9-10:30 a.m.
 in Lawson Hall, Room 1142, on campus. A universal live stream URL for those viewing via desktop or mobile device for the presentation is available at: 
http://www.kaltura.com/tiny/urfrk Reichental fouses on modernizing the technology environment, implementing enhancements to the citywide SAP implementation, and pushing the boundaries of innovation in local government such as open data and broader civic participation through mobile devices.
 He was awarded the distinction of being one of the 25 Doers, Dreamers, and Drivers in Government in America in 2013. He has also recently been named the top social government CIO on Twitter.
 In an era of government deficits it's comforting to note that there is an abundant surplus of data. But until recently, leveraging value from data beyond its initial creation and use has been difficult.
 Today, this picture is changing. A combination of new technologies and a more enlightened emerging leadership is finding innovative ways to put data to work.
 Beyond much desired transparency and accountability, making government data more easily accessible is creating a wave of valuable community applications.
 In this talk, Reichental will discuss these transforming items and help the audience to think about how they too can participate in this new data economy.
 Jonathan Reichental’s webpage </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/benefit-sessions-announced-for-spanish,-chinese-and-vietnamese-speakers.html
<Content> Benefit sessions announced for Spanish, Chinese and Vietnamese speakers
 Human Resources is offering the "Health Care: Moving Forward in 2014" education presentation at sessions for Spanish, Chinese and Vietnamese speakers.
 Anyone interested in attending should register in advance by contacting Sandy Street at slstreet@purdue.edu or 49-49418. Spanish sessions are: 
 * Sept. 5 (Th) -- 9-10:30 a.m. Purdue Village Community Center * Sept. 5 (Th) -- 2-3:30 p.m. Purdue Village Community Center Speakers of these languages also may want to mark their calendars for sessions planned during open enrollment.
 The first hour of the sessions listed below will be an open enrollment presentation, followed by an hourlong open computer lab and walk-in help time.
 * Nov. 7 (Th) -- 9-11 a.m. McCutcheon Residence Hall Computer Lab * Nov. 8 (F) -- 2-4 p.m. McCutcheon Residence Hall Computer Lab 
</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/benefits-open-enrollment-begins-today.html
<Content> Benefits open enrollment begins today
 Faculty and staff may enroll in 2014 benefits beginning today (Oct. 28) and ending at 6 p.m. (ET) Nov. 15. New medical plan options and significant changes in medical premiums make it important for everyone to consider their options carefully for next year and enroll by the deadline.
 Beginning this year, employees will use their Purdue career account username and password to log in to EBenefits, Purdue's online benefits system.
 Employees will go to the Purdue Employee Portal at www.purdue.edu/employeeportal, click the EBenefits link at the top of the page and then enter their Purdue username and password to access the EBenefits site.
 Following the "Click here to begin 2014 enrollment" link in the middle of the page will let the employee view benefit information and begin the enrollment process.
 Employees who do not know their Purdue career account username or password may call the service number for their campus: * West Lafayette: 765-494-4000
 * Calumet: 219-989-2888 * Fort Wayne: 260-481-6030 * North Central: 219-785-5511 * Daily opportunities to attend a walk-in lab or a presentation.
 Offerings are listed in the enrollment guide, on the Benefits website and in "Today's enrollment events" in Purdue Today. * Truven Informed Enrollment tool that uses the employee's claims history from April 2012-March 2013 to estimate the employee's total cost under each 2014 medical option.
 Estimates include premiums, deductibles and coinsurance. * Castlight to review claims history and check health care pricing. Go to 
www.purdue.edu/castlight.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/benefits-open-enrollment-guides-coming-monday.html
<Content> Benefits open enrollment guides coming Monday
 Open enrollment for 2014 benefits begins Monday (Oct. 28) and runs through 6 p.m. (ET) Nov. 15. Faculty and staff should watch for their enrollment guides, which will be dropped in campus mail on Monday.
 The guide features a photo of John Purdue and a large "2014" on its cover. For more information about benefits open enrollment, go to 
www.purdue.edu/benefits/enroll.html or contact the Human Resources Service Center at 49-42222 or hr@purdue.edu. For sensitive information, use 
www.purdue.edu/HRHelp. HR Help is a secure Web system that safeguards messages sent between the employee and Human Resources. It protects privacy at a higher level than ordinary email can.
</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/bindley-bioscience-center-plans-discovery-day-to-showcase-research.html
<Content> Bindley Bioscience Center plans Discovery Day to showcase research
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University's Bindley Bioscience Center next week will provide a snapshot of the current research under way at the 
Discovery Park facility – from technology development to biological and nanotechnology materials. Bindley's 2013 Discovery Symposium
 is from 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. March 26 in the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, Room 121. The public is invited to attend.
 Lunch will be served, but reservations are required by contacting Susan McCreery 765-496-6147, smccreer@purdue.edu. "The goal of the symposium is to highlight the works of faculty members and research scientists as a testimony to the broad range of multidisciplinary activities at the center representing the various colleges across the Purdue campus," said Joseph Irudayaraj, deputy director for Bindley and a professor of agriculture and biological engineering.
 The research encompasses technology development and biological and nanomaterials from conception to implementation to address problems in basic medical sciences, biotechnology, agriculture and human health, he said.
 Presentations are scheduled by: * Maureen McCann, professor of biological sciences and director of Discovery Park's Energy Center.
 The $15 million Bindley Bioscience Center, which opened to Discovery Park researchers in October 2005, provides a unique infrastructure to support interdisciplinary research.
 Laboratory space and high-end equipment is shared and available to support diverse projects ranging from cancer and other complex diseases to technology development and the creation of new feedstocks and catalysts for biofuels production.
 An expert staff provides research consultation and technical support to enable rapid and effective technology implementation, feasibility studies and creation of pilot data in support of new project ideas.
 Research core support services operate in conjunction with original research projects. Under way is a 29,000-square-foot expansion to Bindley that will house researchers to work on innovative animal models of disease, development of new therapeutics and in-vivo imaging.
 Expected to open later this year, the $15 million Multidisciplinary Cancer Research Facility is funded through a federal stimulus grant from the National Institutes of Health's National Center for Research Resources.
 Luanne Ludwig, Bindley operations manager, 765-494-2276, lml@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/bindley-to-host-life-sciences-forum-to-broaden-industry-connections.html
<Content> Bindley to host life sciences forum to broaden industry connections
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The Bindley Bioscience Center in Purdue University's Discovery Park will host a life sciences forum on Sept.
 6 to deepen its industry ties with those in diagnostics and device development, biotechnology, agriculture, pharmaceuticals, and drug discovery and delivery.
 The Bindley Bioscience Center Industry Forum, which will include tours of several research laboratories in Discovery Park and meetings with Purdue faculty and scientific directors, runs from 8 a.m.
 to 5:30 p.m. in the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, Room 129. The forum, which is free, will conclude with a networking reception from 5:30-7 p.m.
 "The leadership of the Bindley Bioscience Center hopes to better understand the research needs of industry, the gap in workforce knowledge and the technical challenges in the coming decade, particularly for those in agriculture, biopharmaceuticals, biotechnology, diagnostics and drug delivery," said Bindley deputy director Joseph Irudayaraj, a biological engineering professor.
 "The expected outcome of the industry forum is to create a vision that will tailor research and educational resources that specifically and efficiently prepare Bindley and Purdue to deliver timely solutions that meet the demands of our industry partners.
" Tim Sands, Purdue's executive vice president for academic affairs and provost, will provide opening remarks for the Bindley industry forum.
 A panel discussion, scheduled from 10 a.m. to noon, will feature industry representatives from Eli Lilly & Co., Dow AgroSciences LLC, Cook Biotech, Ag Alumni Seed, Elanco, Endocyte Inc.
, Syngenta AG, Roche Diagnostics, BioCrossroads and companies from the Purdue Research Park in West Lafayette. Joe Pekny, interim director of the Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship and a Purdue professor of chemical engineering, will deliver the keynote lecture during lunch.
 In addition, Purdue will showcase research laboratories, equipment, expertise and other resources at Bindley and Birck Nanotechnology Center.
 The research labs focus on the areas of proteomics, metabolomics, cytometry, drug screening and discovery, translational pharmacology, imaging, informatics and bionanotechnology.
 Opportunities for technical training and continuing education through a short course, industry-focused series also will be discussed.
 To organize the forum, Bindley officials are working with the Discovery Park Development Office, Office of the Vice President for Research, Office of Technology Commercialization, Discovery Park Engagement, Purdue Foundations and Relations office as well as Purdue colleges and departments across campus.
 The Discovery Park center houses the Center for Direct Catalytic Conversion of Biomass to Biofuels (C3Bio), a U.S. Department of Energy-funded Frontiers Research Center.
 Bindley also is home to the Center for Global Research and Intervention in Infectious Diseases (C-GRID) and&#8232; plays a key role for the Indiana Clinical and Translational Science Institute.
 Its Physiological Sensing Facility in Bindley develops and implements innovative multimodal sensors in biological systems. The Bindley Bioscience Center, which opened to researchers in October 2005, is a 50,000-square-foot research facility that includes 20,000 square feet of laboratory space to facilitate research activity of multiple life sciences teams in parallel.
 Bindley is named for 1962 Purdue graduate William E. Bindley, who in 2002 contributed $52.5 million to the university. Bindley designated $7.5 million of his gift to cover half the cost of the two-story research facility, with the rest funded by earnings from unrestricted endowments.
 A $15.9 million expansion is currently underway adjacent to Bindley. The Multidisciplinary Cancer Research Facility is expected to open in 2014 to enhance the disease research capabilities on campus, integrating scientific expertise from the molecular level through animal disease modeling.
 The addition will house investigators from the National Cancer Institute-designated Purdue University Center for Cancer Research to work on innovative animal models of disease, development of new therapeutics and in-vivo animal imaging.
 Tommy Sors, 765-494-1678, tsors@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/bird-flu-expert-working-on-vaccine-that-protects-against-multiple-strains.html
<Content> Bird flu expert working on vaccine that protects against multiple strains
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — As the bird flu outbreak in China worsens, a Purdue University expert is working on vaccines that offer broader protection against multiple strains of the virus.
 The World Health Organization warned in a news conference that the virus behind the current outbreak, H7N9, is one of the most lethal seen in recent years.
 There have been 32 reported deaths from this avian influenza virus. Suresh Mittal, a professor of comparative pathobiology in Purdue's College of Veterinary Medicine, has developed a new vaccination method that incorporates genes from multiple strains of the virus and creates protection that could persist through different mutations, he said.
 "Avian influenza viruses are moving targets that rapidly evolve and evade vaccines that are specific to a predicted strain," Mittal said.
 "We need a vaccine that protects against a spectrum of strains to prepare for a potential pandemic. Such a vaccine may not offer full protection from the strain that pops up, but even partial protection could save lives and buy time to create a more effective vaccine.
" Mittal created vaccines for past strains of bird flu and continues to collaborate with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 "The strain responsible for the current outbreak appears not to be easily transmitted from person to person, which occurs effectively in a pandemic situation," he said.
 "Fortunately, avian influenza in humans tends to replicate deep in the lungs where it can't easily get out through coughing. However, the more people this virus infects, the more chances it has to evolve.
 It is important to keep a close watch on this outbreak." The H7N9 is a new strain of avian influenza virus with the potential to infect humans, he said.
 Mittal's method uses a harmless adenovirus as a vector to deliver avian influenza virus genes into the body where they create a two-fold immune response of antibody and cell-based protection.
 The adenovirus vector-infected host cells produce infleunza proteins that lead to the creation of antibodies and special T-cells primed to kill the virus and any cells infected by it.
 Any genes important to avian influenza virus protection can be incorporated into the adenovirus vector, and it can be designed to expose the immune system to both the surface and internal components of the virus.
 In this way the immune system can be primed to recognize portions of the virus that predominately remain the same across all strains and those that are more difficult for the virus to change as it adapts to the immune system attack, he said.
 Mittal and CDC collaborators created a vaccine in 2006 for the H5N1 bird flu virus, and the work was described in papers for The Lancet, The Journal of Infectious Diseases and the Journal Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics
. Purdue researcher starts work on 2009 H1N1 flu vaccine</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/bishop-gene-robinson-to-speak-at-purdue.html
<Content> Bishop Gene Robinson to speak at Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Bishop Gene Robinson's Purdue University visit will include three public events on Oct. 27-28, along with classroom discussions and meetings with student and community groups.
 Conversations with Gene Robinson is presented by the Purdue LGBTQ Center and Purdue Convocations with support from the Purdue Student Union Board, Chapel of the Good Shepherd Episcopal Church, the vice provost for diversity and inclusion, and the vice president for student affairs.
 * Oct. 27. 2:30 p.m. Elliott Hall of Music." A Celebration of Community." Community and religious leaders, along with community artists and ensembles, will lead a gathering that, through story and song, celebrates inclusion and affirmation for the community at large.
 * Oct. 27. 4:30 p.m. Elliott Hall of Music. Keynote address. Robinson will present his case for equal rights, using a common sense, reasoned approach, as well as a religious argument.
 * Oct. 28. 7 p.m. Fowler Hall. "Panel discussion: Change Makers!" Robinson and a panel of campus and community leaders will discuss strategies to promote positive change as well as how to lead and overcome obstacles to become a leader for the change you wish to see.
 Robinson, bishop of the Diocese of New Hampshire in the Episcopal Church (retired), is the first openly gay person elected to the episcopate and a leading religious spokesperson for gay rights and marriage equality.
 Robinson uses direct language to address complex, controversial issues, avoiding polemics and ideology, and uniting sacred and secular points of view.
 He's also someone for whom marriage equality is a personal issue. Married to a woman for 14 years, Robinson is a father of two children and has been married to a man for the last four years of a 25-year relationship.
 Born and raised in Lexington, Ky., he completed his master of divinity degree at General Theological Seminary in 1973, and served as deacon, priest, and bishop before retiring in 2013.
 Robinson is now a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress in Washington, D.C. His most recent book, "God Believes in Love: Straight Talk About Gay Marriage," was published in 2012.
 Note to Journalists: Publication-quality photographs are available at http://www.convocations.org/press </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/blister-packs-increase-shelf-life-of-multidrug-resistant-tuberculosis-medicine.html
<Content> Blister packs increase shelf life of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis medicine
 The Chao Center for Industrial Pharmacy & Contract Manufacturing, a provider of the multidrug-resistant tuberculosis medicine Cycloserine, announced Thursday (Sept.
 12) that Cycloserine Capsules USP® will now be sold in new blister packaging. The change in packaging to extend the shelf life of the drug from two years to three years.
 Previously, the medication was sold in bottle form. (Photo provided by Purdue Research Foundation) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - People affected by multidrug-resistant tuberculosis can benefit from new blister packaging that extends the shelf life of an antibiotic treatment from two years to three years.
 Each blister pack will provide a month's supply of Cycloserine Capsules USP®, a global drug used to treat multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.
 The blister packs are now available in new packaging to the global market including North America where it was previously sold under the name Seromycin®.
 The drug was developed by Eli Lilly and Co. and is manufactured and distributed by the Purdue Research Park-based Chao Center for Industrial Pharmacy & Contract Manufacturing
. The Chao Center is a world leader in producing and distributing Cycloserine. "Increasing the shelf life of Cycloserine is important because it means we will be able to produce greater quantities of the drug and the global health market will be able to have a larger supply readily available for the areas of the world affected by multidrug-resistant tuberculosis," said Joseph Hornett, senior vice president, treasurer and COO of the Purdue Research Foundation, which owns the Chao Center.
 "We decided to use the same name for all markets to help avoid any possible confusion among the many global health care organizations.
" Highly contagious, difficult to treat and a growing threat to global public health, the World Health Organization (WHO) reported in 2013 that multidrug-resistant tuberculosis strikes between 500,000 and 630,000 people each year.
 The highest prevalence of the disease is in China, India, South Africa and countries of the Russian Federation. WHO estimates that the average multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patient infects up to 20 other people in his or her lifetime, and cases have been found in nearly every country surveyed by the organization.
 The Chao Center for Industrial Pharmacy & Contract Manufacturing is owned by the Purdue Research Foundation. It opened in 2005 at the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette through a donation to the Purdue University College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences from alumni Allen Chao, Ph.D.
, and his wife, Lee Hwa-Chao. Craig Davis, 765-464-8414, daviscw@thechaocenter.com </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/calling-on-students-make-the-call.html
<Content> Calling on students: Make the Call
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University students and staff are rolling out a new online video, "Make the Call," to explain alcohol poisoning and urge everyone to call for help when someone is in a life-threatening situation after drinking.
 The video also explains the Indiana Lifeline law and Purdue medical amnesty policy, both designed to protect individuals from legal or disciplinary action when they call for help.
 "The Indiana Lifeline law and Purdue's medical amnesty policy were set in place by students for students," said Joseph Rust, president of Purdue Student Government.
 "Students' well-being comes first, and that's what this video is conveying. It's telling students 'Make the call. Get help. Save a life.
'" The video, available at http://www.purdue.edu/makethecall, depicts a student who has alcohol poisoning and how his friends make the decision to call for help.
 It includes commentary from Dana Wislocki, a Purdue paramedic, and Jeffery Stefancic, the associate dean of students in the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities.
 "Previous data showed the primary way that students responded to alcohol poisoning was to monitor a person who had passed out," said Tammy Loew, health advocacy coordinator for the Student Wellness Office.
 "This was disconcerting because a person's blood alcohol concentration can continue to rise even while he or she is passed out. Even after a person stops drinking, alcohol in the stomach and intestine continues to enter the bloodstream and circulate throughout the body.
 It is dangerous to assume the person will be fine by sleeping it off. "The most important response is to make the call and get the victim medical attention.
 Students also needed to know that the university and legal system will support their decision to get medical attention." Purdue Fire Chief Kevin Ply, whose paramedics respond to calls for help, says critical signs of alcohol poisoning include any of the following:
 If alcohol poisoning goes untreated, Ply says, it can result in several life-threatening situations, such as: Untreated severe dehydration from vomiting can cause seizures, permanent brain damage or death.
 Even if the victim lives, an alcohol overdose can lead to irreversible brain damage. Rapid binge drinking is especially dangerous because the victim can ingest a fatal dose before becoming unconscious.
 "This video is a collaborative effort involving several campus partners, including students," Loew said. "We're pleased that the information is now readily available in one location, and we hope that student groups of all sorts watch it and spread the word.
 "While we hope they never need it, students will find the information they need to save a life." </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/camp-for-military-kids-revived-after-loss-of-federal-funding.html
<Content> Camp for military kids revived after loss of federal funding
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A summer camp for children of military families that was nearly canceled this year because it lost federal funding has been revived through a fundraising campaign of the camp operators.
 The camp of Indiana Operation: Military Kids will be held for the third consecutive year at the Dunes Learning Center at Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, after all.
 "There are a lot of organizations in the state that support military families, and it's great to see the Dunes Learning Center keep that commitment and serve military kids," said Ryan Wynkoop, coordinator for Indiana Operation: Military Kids, based at Purdue University.
 Because of spending reductions, the Department of Defense granted funding to only 23 states for Operation: Military Kids camps this year.
 Indiana was not among them. In January, it was doubtful that a camp would be held this year. But the Dunes Learning Center and the American Legion took on the project of raising the needed money to restore the program.
 The camp supports youth affected by military deployment by connecting them to local community resources that can give them support when a loved one is deployed.
 Indiana Operation: Military Kids is a shared initiative of the U.S. Army Child, Youth & School Services and funded by the Army National Guard and Army Reserve in collaboration with Purdue Extension.
 The camp will be held July 14-18. Campers will sleep in cabins and participate in activities such as swimming in Lake Michigan, going on hikes to learn about the biodiversity of plants and animals at Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, and enjoying nightly campfires.
 Programs such as counseling to help campers of deployed family members cope with their situation also are offered. The Dunes Learning Center will take as many as 60 campers ages 9-18.
 Eligible applicants must have a parent, guardian or sibling who is either now serving in the military or has been wounded or killed in action.
 Those eligible from neighboring states also can attend. Last year, all five branches of the armed forces were represented at the camp.
 To apply, parents or guardians must fill out an application and mail it to Indiana Operation: Military Kids, 615 W. State St., West Lafayette, IN, 47907.
 Applications are on the website of Indiana Operation: Military Kids at http://www.four-h.purdue.edu/omk/OMKcamp.html. Deadline for applications is July 1.
 The Dunes Learning Center and American Legion raised $1,335 for the camp as of mid-May. The camp has assured Indiana Operation: Military Kids that it will provide the $22,000 needed to fund the camp.
 Pledges from donors are being made online at http://www.indiegogo.com/projects/396126. Contributions are tax deductible. Any additional money raised beyond the goal will go toward next year's camp.
 Raising money for the camp is a way to show appreciation to members of the military who are separated from their families in service to their country, said Geof Benson, executive director of the Dunes Learning Center.
 "The parents are doing a great job serving our country," he said. "The least we can do is send their kids to camp." </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/campus-group-sponsors-diversity-in-comics-conference.html
<Content> Campus group sponsors Diversity in Comics Conference
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The National Organization of Gay and Lesbian Scientists and Technical Professionals (NOGLSTP) at Purdue will host Diversity in Comics, an event celebrating comic books, Monday (Feb.
 4) through Thursday (Feb. 7) on campus. The conference will explore how the evolution of America has affected the representation of minorities in the medium, said Ronald Simoes, public relations chair for NOGLSTP at Purdue.
 * Monday (Feb. 4). 6-8 p.m. Beering Hall, Room 2280. "Superman vs. The Elite." Movie and discussion. * Tuesday (Feb. 5). 6-8 p.m.
 Stewart Center, Room 206. Creators panel featuring Devin Grayson, Joseph Phillip Illidge and Phil Jimenez. Grayson writes comic books, including the "Batman: Gotham Knights" series at DC Comics, and novels.
 Illidge was the first African-American to edit the Batman line of comic books for DC Entertainment and was a comics editor for the independent graphic novel publisher Archaia Entertainment.
 Jimenez is an artist who has worked on comics such as "Amazing Spider-Man" and "Infinite Crisis" and has worked as writer/artist on "Wonder Woman.
" * Wednesday (Feb. 6). 6-8 p.m. Stewart Center, Room 206. Creators panel featuring Tony Bedard and Marjorie Liu. Bedard is a writer and editor in the comic book industry, working on such comics as "Green Lantern: New Guardians.
" Liu writes paranormal romance and urban fantasy novels and also writes for Marvel Comics. Her work there has included the "Astonishing X-Men," "NYX," "Daken: Dark Wolverine" and "Black Widow.
" Source: Ronald Simoes, rsimoes@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/carnatic-singer-ahbishek-raghuram-to-perform-at-purdue.html
<Content> Carnatic singer Ahbishek Raghuram to perform at Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Carnatic singer Ahbishek Raghuram will perform at 3 p.m. Nov. 10 in Stewart Center's Fowler Hall. The performance is presented by 
Purdue Convocations in association with the Indian Classical Music Association of Purdue. Ticket holders are invited to attend a preshow discussion at 2 p.m.
 in Stewart Center, Room 310. Join a member of the ICMAP community for a musical and historical introduction to the Carnatic music tradition.
 Hailing from southern India, Abhishek Raghuram (ah-BEE-shake ra-GOO-ram) is a leading vocalist in the Carnatic music tradition of southern India.
 Long ago, Indian classical music split into two major divisions along geographic lines, with the north being more closely related to the music of Persia while music of the south became among the most rhythmically complex musical forms in the world.
 Raghuram, a child prodigy in a musical family, took up the two-headed drum known as the mridangam and began earning accolades as early as age 7.
 Raghuram has developed his own voice within the form, and he may be on his way to creating a new bani, or school of style, of Indian classical music.
 Just as in many early forms of Western classical music and the ongoing tradition of jazz, improvisation on a theme or scale - or, in this case, a raga - is where the discipline of training meets artistry in the moment.
 Joining Raghuram to set his harmonic and rhythmic world in motion will be B.U. Ganesh Prasad on the violin and Neyveli Narayanan on the mridangam.
 Tickets are $20 for adults and $12 for those 18 years and younger, Purdue students and Ivy Tech Lafayette students. Tickets are available at the Elliott Hall and Stewart Center box offices at 765-494-3933 or 800-914-SHOW.
 Group discounts also are available to groups of 10 more. Call 765-496-1977 for more details or visit http://www.convocations.org/group-sales/
 Initiated in 1902, Purdue Convocations was one of the first professional performing arts presenters in the United States. Each year, Convocations offers 20-30 performances of widely varying genres.
 Convocations aims to promote frequent exposure to and familiarity with human cultural expression in a multitude of forms and media.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/cattle-prices-continue-to-climb-as-herd-numbers-fall.html
<Content> Cattle prices continue to climb as herd numbers fall
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Expectations of tight beef cattle supplies and strong demand are pushing cattle prices higher this fall - a trend that could continue for the foreseeable future, Purdue Extension agricultural economist Chris Hurt says.
 Finished cattle prices hit their summer lows in early August at slightly below $120 per hundredweight, but have climbed back toward $130 in anticipation of small beef supplies in the coming year.
 According to Hurt, per capita beef supplies, or the amount of beef available per person in the U.S., likely will be down by about 5 percent for the rest of this year and on into next.
 High cattle prices combined with low feed prices - corn hit $4.32 per bushel on Oct. 14 - likely means the small number of available calves could be placed on feedlots at lighter weights than a year ago when feed prices were high.
 "Lower priced feed and the expectations for increasing finished cattle prices over the next four to five months should also encourage feedlot managers to feed to heavier weights," Hurt said.
 Low cattle numbers mean feedlots and packing facilities have a lot of unused capacity. Capacity is a fixed cost that doesn't go away with limited cattle supplies.
 "The combination of excess capacity and high fixed costs means that both will tend to bid strongly for the limited cattle numbers," Hurt said.
 "Ultimately, this strong bidding gets back to the brood cow producer in the form of record-high calf and feeder cattle prices. "Unfortunately, these conditions also mean that the margins for both packers and feedlots, while better than in the past year, will still be narrow and likely less than their total costs.
" Strong cattle prices and aggressive bidding by feedlots and packers are likely to lead to a year or more of additional downsizing.
 Some cattle producers in areas with healthy pastures could start retaining heifers as early as this fall. But in dry regions, which represent about 45 percent of the brood-cow herd, expansion won't begin until weather becomes more favorable and pastures recover.
 "If beef cow numbers begin to slowly turn upward in 2014, downsizing of cattle feeding capacity might end in 2015 and the packing industry by 2016," Hurt said.
 "The years beyond 2016 should provide some expansion for the beef cattle industry, but still a slow upward growth. "A slow upward trend is not highly optimistic, but much better than declining trends of recent years.
" Hurt offers more commentary on the beef cattle outlook in the Oct. 21 Weekly Outlook on the University of Illinois Extension's 
Farmdoc website. His article is titled “Cattle Prices Continue to Rise” and it can be downloaded for free. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/cell-detection-system-promising-for-medical-research,-diagnostics.html
<Content> Cell-detection system promising for medical research, diagnostics
 This schematic depicts a new system that uses tiny magnetic beads to quickly detect rare types of cancer cells circulating in a patient's blood, an advance that could help medical doctors diagnose cancer earlier than now possible and monitor how well a patient is responding to therapy.
 (Purdue School of Mechanical Engineering image/ Bin-Da Chan) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Researchers are developing a system that uses tiny magnetic beads to quickly detect rare types of cancer cells circulating in a patient's blood, an advance that could help medical doctors diagnose cancer earlier than now possible and monitor how well a patient is responding to therapy.
 While other researchers have used magnetic beads for similar applications, the new “high-throughput" system has the ability to quickly process and analyze large volumes of blood or other fluids, said 
Cagri Savran (pronounced Chary Savran), an associate professor of mechanical engineering at Purdue University. He is working with oncologists at the Indiana University School of Medicine to further develop the technology, which recently was highlighted in the journal 
Lab on a Chip. The approach combines two techniques: immunomagnetic separation and microfluidics. In immunomagnetic separation, magnetic beads about a micron in diameter are "functionalized," or coated with antibodies that recognize and attach to antigens on the surface of target cells.
 The researchers functionalized the beads to recognize breast cancer and lung cancer cells in laboratory cultures. "We were able to detect cancer cells with up to a 90 percent yield," said Savran, working with Purdue postdoctoral fellow Chun-Li Chang and medical researchers Shadia Jalal and Daniela E.
 Matei from the IU School of Medicine's Department of Medicine. "We expect this system to be useful in a wide variety of settings, including detection of rare cells for clinical applications.
" Previous systems using immunomagnetic separation to isolate cells required that the cells then be transferred to another system to be identified, counted and studied.
 "What's new here is that we've built a system that can perform all of these steps on one chip," said Savran, also an associate professor of biomedical engineering.
 "It both separates cells and also places them on a chip surface so you can count them and study them with a microscope." Another innovation is the fast processing, he said.
 Other "microfluidic" chips are unable to quickly process large volumes of fluid because they rely on extremely narrow channels, which restrict fluid flow.
 "The circulating cancer cells are difficult to detect because very few of them are contained in blood," Savran said. "That means you have to use as many magnetic beads as practically possible to quickly screen and process a relatively large sample, or you won't find these cells.
" The new design passes the fluid through a chamber that allows for faster flow; a standard 7.5-milliliter fluid sample can run through the system in a matter of minutes.
 The Purdue portion of the research is based at the Birck Nanotechnology Center in Purdue's Discovery Park. The beads are directed by a magnetic field to a silicon mesh containing holes 8 microns in diameter.
 Because the target cells are so sparse, many of the beads fail to attract any and pass through the silicon mesh. The beads that have attached to cells are too large to pass through the holes in the mesh.
 If needed, the cells can quickly be flushed from the system for further analysis simply by turning off the magnetic field. "Not only can the cells be readily retrieved for further usage, the chip can be re-used for subsequent experiments," Savran said.
 The work has been supported by the Walther Oncology Physical Sciences and Engineering Research Embedding Program in the Purdue Oncological Sciences Center, the Purdue Center for Cancer Research, the National Science Foundation and the Indiana University Melvin and Bren Simon Cancer Center.
 Findings were detailed in a research paper published last year in Proceedings of IEEE Sensors. The work also was highlighted on Sept.
 18 in Lab on a Chip. Purdue has filed a patent application on the concept. Note to Journalists: An electronic copy of the research paper is available from Emil Venere, Purdue News Service, at 765-494-4709, 
venere@purdue.edu aSchool of Mechanical Engineering, bBirck Nanotechnology Center, and cWeldon School of Biomedical Engineering, Purdue University
 We report a microchip system based on a combination of immunomagnetic separation and microfluidics for high-throughput detection of whole cells.
 In this system target cells bound to magnetic beads flow parallel to a microchip with flow rates of mLs/min. A magnetic field draws the bead-bound cells toward the microchip, which contains apertures that allow passage of unbound beads while trapping the target cells.
 The cells can be analyzed clearly under a microscope and released from the chip for further analysis by removing the magnetic field.
 The system was characterized by detecting breast cancer cells (MCF-7) and lung cancer cells (A549) in culture media using anti-EpCAM conjugated magnetic beads.
 We were able to detect MCF-7 cells with > 90% yield using a flow rate of about 4 mL/min, and A549 cells with 78% yield with 1 mL/min.
 We also demonstrated high-throughput detection of cells with concentrations as low as 0.8 cells/mL in large sample volumes (12 mL).
 We expect this system to be useful in a wide variety of settings, including detection of rare cells for clinical applications. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/center-for-healthy-living-offering-sports-physicals.html
<Content> Center for Healthy Living offering sports physicals
 Faculty and staff can save money by getting their child's sports physical at the Center for Healthy Living. Sports physicals are available at the center for dependents covered on a Purdue medical plan.
 Those covered on the Purdue Incentive and the Purdue Copay plans get sports physicals for just $10. Choice Fund with HSA participants will pay $32.09.
 Anyone coming to the center for a sports physical should bring the IHSAA form with them. The form is available at http://www.ihsaa.org/Portals/0/ihsaa/documents/quick%20resources/physicalform.pdf
.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/center-for-healthy-living-profile-kamal-singh.html
<Content> Center for Healthy Living profile: Kamal Singh
 Kamal Singh, pharmacist at Center for Healthy Living. (Rodney McPhail/HR Communications) Download Photo Pharmacist Kamal Singh is now providing medication therapy management services at the Center for Healthy Living.
 I work in conjunction with health care providers to optimize the patient's health and well-being. As an MTM pharmacist, I provide one-on-one sessions with clients to help prevent, identify and resolve any medication-related problems.
 During a one-on-one session, I look at the individual's overall health status and goals with a focus on the patient's medication regimen.
 These sessions cover any concerns or questions the patient may have about the medications, such as use, benefits, side effects, tolerability and cost.
 I also evaluate the patient's medication list to ensure there are no drug interactions or duplications of therapy. All benefits-eligible Purdue employees, plus spouses/same-sex domestic partners and other dependents covered on a Purdue medical plan are eligible.
 The Center for Healthy Living provides MTM service at no cost to these individuals. Through MTM, patients get a better understanding of their medications and the positive effects they will have on their medical conditions.
 This leads to patients following their medication plans more carefully, improved health outcomes for patients and decreased health care costs.
 Over the years as a pharmacist, I have observed the progression of MTM services and the benefits they have for patients. The impact that we, as pharmacists, can have in improving a patient's health through medication therapy education is tremendous.
 That's what draws me to be an MTM pharmacist at the Center for Healthy Living. Outside work, I enjoy traveling, learning about different cultures of the world and spending quality time with my family and friends.
</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/center-for-healthy-living-to-offer-array-of-fall-workshops.html
<Content> Center for Healthy Living to offer array of fall workshops
 Cholesterol management, diabetes and sleep are the topics of Center for Healthy Living workshops in October and November. All workshops take place at the Center for Healthy Living in the Purdue West Shopping Plaza, 1400 W.
 State St. To register, call Millie Fenneman, practice administrator, at 49-40111. Limited seats are available. Successful Cholesterol Management
 Oct. 21 (Th). 12:10 to 12:50 p.m. Have you recently been diagnosed with high cholesterol? Or are you working to reduce your chances of a diagnosis by trying to keep your numbers in check?
 Come learn about what cholesterol is, where it comes from, and what types of screenings are available. We will also discuss how to keep your numbers low by eating healthy, being active and investigating medication options.
 Instructor: Suzanne Rossiter, BSN, MSN. Diabetes 101 Series Oct. 30 and Nov. 6, 13 and 20 (W). 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. During this four-week Type 2 diabetes basics series, participants will learn current clinical information of diabetes management, including a list of diabetes medications, insulin action times and other treatment options.
 Physical activity is also emphasized in each session, and participants will learn how regular activity positively affects glucose levels and heart health.
 Important information on pre-diabetes is also provided because studies show that many people with pre-diabetes go on to develop diabetes within 10 years.
 Information contains ideas that participants can follow to prevent or delay the onset of Type 2 diabetes. Sample restaurant menu meals will be used to help participants learn about carbohydrate counting, dietary fiber and its importance, and sodium and transfat information.
 Instructor: Rosemary Benjamin, RD, CD, CDE. Sleep, Stress and Hormones Nov. 14 (Th). 12:10 to 12:50 p.m. Do you ever wonder how lack of sleep affects your health and well-being?
 Did you know there is a connection between sleep, stress and hormones? In this workshop, participants will learn about the importance of sleep on learning and memory, metabolism and weight, safety, mood, heart health, and the immune system.
 Instructor: Cheryl Laszynski, BSN, MBA.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/changes-to-perf-benefits-coming-in-2014.html
<Content> Changes to PERF benefits coming in 2014
 The Indiana Public Retirement System (INPRS) Board of Trustees has approved two changes that will influence the amount of future PERF retirees' benefits.
 Clerical, service and operations/technical staff hired before Sept. 9, 2013, participate in the Public Employees’ Retirement Fund (PERF).
 * PERF participants choosing to annuitize their annuity savings account (ASA) will convert the accumulation to a lifetime payment based on market rates at the time they retire.
 INPRS is selecting an outside provider to administer the ASA annuity program. PERF is a defined benefit program and provides a monthly benefit for the life of the retiree based on a formula that includes years of service, high five years of salary and age at retirement.
 Many states sponsor pension programs and have faced funding issues as life spans of retirees have increased and years of recession have limited investment returns.
 Indiana's PERF program is ranked above most other states when it comes to having funds on hand to handle projected costs, but the goal is to secure the future of all retirees by making adjustments to bring the program into 100 percent funding status.
 The Human Resources Benefits team is in contact with INPRS to learn about assistance that will be made available to Purdue participants.
 PERF's website provides a summary of the changes as well as an opportunity to sign up for updates. A calculator is in development that will help determine specific impact for individuals.
 To learn more about these changes, visit INPRS at www.in.gov/inprs/2817.htm. As additional information and comparison tools are made available, Purdue will partner with PERF to assist participants in evaluating the significance of these changes to their plan for retirement.
</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/changing-climate-could-have-mixed-results-for-vineyards.html
<Content> Changing climate could have mixed results for vineyards
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University online series on Indiana's wine grape industry continues this week with a report on how a changing climate is both helping and hindering growers.
 Part 5 of "Through the Grapevine" includes interviews with climatologists and a viticulture specialist who share their expertise on an Indiana climate that has become milder in the past 30 years, with a longer growing season that has enabled some producers to try their hand at growing varieties they previously could not realistically cultivate in a cooler environment.
 A southern Indiana grower tells of his experiences of nearly 20 years in growing certain varieties that thrive in the mild climates of Mediterranean Europe and California.
 The article also explores how the possibility of more fluctuating weather extremes in the future could lead to continued instances of drought, hail, frost damage and excessive rain - any of which could be devastating to vineyards.
 One climatologist says growers will need to adapt to the changing climate in choosing which varieties to grow. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/chemical-engineering-alum-to-endow-professorship.html
<Content> Chemical engineering alum to endow professorship
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Gerald Skidmore, a Purdue University engineering alumnus, and his wife, Sarah, have given a $750,000 gift to the School of Chemical Engineering to be used for a named professorship.
 Through Purdue's Faculty Fund for Excellence, the gift will be matched dollar for dollar, bringing the total for the professorship to $1.5 million.
 "We are grateful to Gerald and Sarah Skidmore for this generous gift, which continues their long-term support of our school," said Arvind Varma, the Jay and Cynthia Ihlenfeld Head of Chemical Engineering and R.
 Games Slayter Distinguished Professor. "By helping to attract or to retain outstanding faculty, this endowed professorship will positively impact our students in perpetuity.
" Skidmore earned a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering in 1954. In 2011 he received the Outstanding Chemical Engineer Award from the School of Chemical Engineering.
 After serving as product sales manager with national responsibility for Archer Daniels Midland Co., Skidmore started his own business, Skidmore Enterprises, in 1963, selling machinery, chemicals, instrumentation, starches and soy products to a variety of industries.
 In 1971, the business became Skidmore Sales and Distributing Co. It is now one of the largest distributors of industrial food ingredients to the food industry with more than 2,000 line items, 150 suppliers and nearly 120 employees.
 "Purdue was my first and only choice for an engineering education. I was not disappointed," Skidmore said. "The opportunities available to me allowed not only a wonderful professional and technical education, but also the chance to interact with the other students and faculty to develop many of the skills necessary to succeed in the business world.
 I will always be grateful to Purdue for the fine education and wonderful campus experiences. My wife and I are delighted to have the opportunity to give back to Purdue.
" The Faculty Fund for Excellence was established earlier this year to raise private gifts that will be matched by up to $7.25 million in university funds designated for faculty investment.
 The program is designed to endow new professorships. Named and distinguished professorships offer a way for the university to recognize contributions by faculty to their areas of expertise.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/civil-engineering-building-to-be-named-for-alumnus.html
<Content> Civil Engineering building to be named for alumnus
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – The Purdue University civil engineering building will be named for alumnus and donor Delon Hampton and his mother, Elizabeth Hampton.
 The naming of the Delon and Elizabeth Hampton Hall of Civil Engineering is subject to approval by the Board of Trustees, which meets Friday (July 20).
 Delon Hampton, who has made a $7.5 million gift to the School of Civil Engineering, earned a master's degree in civil engineering from Purdue in 1958 and a doctorate, also in civil engineering, in 1961.
 He received an honorary degree from Purdue in 1994. "Dr. Hampton has a deep and longstanding commitment to Purdue," said Timothy Sands, the university's acting president and Basil S.
 Turner Professor of Engineering. "Naming the building in the Hamptons' honor is an appropriate recognition and will serve as an ongoing tribute to his generosity and leadership.
" Hampton of Potomac, Md., is the founder of Delon Hampton & Associates (DHA), a top design firm specializing in civil, structural and environmental engineering, and construction and program management and planning services.
 He was a civil engineering assistant professor at Kansas State University and a professor at Howard University. While on leave from Kansas State University, he served for a year as head of soil dynamics research at the University of New Mexico's Eric H.
 Wang Research Facility in Albuquerque. He has received the Edmund Friedman Professional Recognition Award and James Laurie Prize from the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) and the Distinguished Engineer Award from the National Society of Black Engineers.
 He is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member of the National Academy of Engineering. He is a past president of ASCE.
 During his tenure, he proposed the creation of ASCE's Outstanding Projects and Leaders (OPAL) Award, which was approved by the board and has been given each year since 2000.
 Hampton has served as a director of the Greater Washington (D.C.) Board of Trade, as a Malcolm Baldrige Award overseer for the U.S.
 Department of Commerce, and as a treasurer and director with the Center for National Policy. The civil engineering building was constructed in three phases.
 The original building was constructed in 1950, with the second phase added in 1961 and a final phase in 1986. "Dr. Hampton's gift will allow the School of Civil Engineering to build on its long history of success," said Leah Jamieson, the John A.
 Edwardson Dean of Engineering. "He is among the school's extraordinarily successful graduates, and it's fitting that the Hampton name will be an integral part of Purdue civil engineering.
 "It also shines a light on Purdue's longstanding commitment to diversity," she said, noting that the School of Civil Engineering had the first Purdue engineering African-American graduate in 1894.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/coache-faculty-survey-finds-purdues-strengths,-areas-for-improvement.html
<Content> COACHE faculty survey finds Purdue's strengths, areas for improvement
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A survey of Purdue University faculty finds several areas of satisfaction, including opportunities for interdisciplinary work and collaboration as well as support for research, says Beverly Davenport Sypher, vice provost for faculty affairs.
 Davenport Sypher said the survey, conducted last fall by the Collaborative on Academic Careers in Higher Education (COACHE) at Harvard, also showed satisfaction with personal and family policies, including tuition waivers and support for families and new parents.
 For the past eight years, COACHE has explored factors that predict faculty recruitment, retention and success. Until 2011-12, only the work life of pre-tenure faculty had been studied.
 Last year Purdue joined 76 institutions to canvass faculty at all ranks for input on a variety of issues about faculty worklife.
 Purdue's response rate was 47 percent for tenured faculty and 49 percent for pre-tenure faculty, Davenport Sypher said. The average response rate for all 76 institutions was 49 percent.
 Recently released survey findings indicated that faculty felt the two best aspects of working at Purdue were the quality of colleagues and the cost of living.
 Faculty felt location and compensation were the two things they liked the least about working at Purdue. "Among other things, we have work to do with respect to collegiality, tenure and promotion clarity, and perceptions of leadership," Davenport Sypher said.
 The survey found that faculty members were dissatisfied with leadership's pace of decision-making and the communication of priorities.
 They also were less satisfied than the study peers with the clarity of tenure policy and the reasonableness of criteria for being awarded tenure, said James McCann, professor of political science and provost faculty fellow who helped coordinate the survey project for the Office of the Provost.
 He added that input from faculty will be important as Purdue tries to improve the workplace. "We know there is dissatisfaction at the associate professor level," McCann said.
 "We're going to look at associate professors and see what we can do to help them be successful. Perhaps the score in mentoring is related to what we aren't doing to help faculty reach that next rank after being tenured.
 We want to hear from people, and we want a frank discussion of what needs to be done." "This is an initiative for faculty," Davenport Sypher said.
 "The COACHE survey has given us some systematic data about areas of improvement. We want and need faculty to be engaged in this process.
 "While there is a good deal to celebrate in terms of the work environment for Purdue faculty, the survey also identified a roadmap for improvements at all levels.
 A promotion and tenure task force is one example of efforts already under way to address issues highlighted in the study." Faculty were invited to a town hall meeting on Monday (Oct.
 29) with Timothy Sands, the acting president, and Victor Lechtenberg, acting provost and chief academic officer, to discuss other areas to be addressed going forward.
 James McCann, 765-494-0738, mccannj@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/collaboration-software-company-grows,-graduates-from-purdue-research-park.html
<Content> Collaboration software company grows, graduates from Purdue Research Park
 LAFAYETTE, Ind. and WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A collaboration software company founded by two Purdue University alumni has grown and is relocating its headquarters and offices from the 
Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette to Lafayette, Ind. Paroon Chadha and Christopher Beltran founded Passageways LLC in 2003. Its software is used by community banks, credit unions, hospitals and insurance companies around the world.
 Chadha is the CEO. "Christopher and I met at Krannert School of Management, and several Purdue professors mentored us as we started Passageways: Charlene Sullivan, Patrick Duparcq, Joe Pekny and Manu Kalwani," he said.
 "We won $7,000 in Purdue's Burton D. Morgan Business Plan Competition in 2002, and then we received seed capital through Purdue Federal Credit Union
, which also became our first customer. Purdue Fed's CEO Bob Falk and Executive Vice President Gail Koehler really understand and support entrepreneurship, and they played significant roles in encouraging us in our startup years.
 With so much help from this community, Christopher and I resisted moving to Silicon Valley because we had everything we needed right here to build Passageways.
" "The Purdue Research Foundation helped with looking for new employees and by providing facilities and media relations, but the biggest benefit is that we had instant credibility being a software technology company based in the Purdue Research Park.
 The Purdue name is recognized around the world," he said. "We were in the park as it began to flourish, which has allowed us to build local connections.
 We never felt we were trying to take on the world by ourselves; the whole area has always been on our side, and we are grateful for that.
" Passageways also benefited by hiring personnel from among the highly qualified students who graduate from Purdue each year. "West Lafayette has a tremendous talent pool, which has been our X-factor, I feel.
 All Purdue entrepreneurs should look into the benefits of this talent pool. There are several Purdue graduates who want to stay in the community for all the right reasons," he said.
 "West Lafayette and Lafayette also are a sanctuary to do some heads-down innovation, and we had several well-wishers and mentors here who helped us blow past several hurdles a startup usually faces early on.
" "Our team grew from 25 people to 35 recently, and we plan to add more by the end of 2013," he said. "This growth prompted us to move to downtown Lafayette at the historic Earl and Hatcher Block, 8 N.
 Third Street. Our new office is expected to be finished in December." Lafayette Mayor Tony Roswarski said downtown Lafayette is a good location for a company like Passageways.
 "It's the creative hub not only for art and entertainment, but for entrepreneurs, startups and creative types of all kinds and interests," he said.
 "With all that Greater Lafayette has to offer, they have made the right choice and they will be an inspiration to other entrepreneurs as we grow the startup community through MatchBOX Coworking Studio and the many efforts by Purdue, Ivy Tech and others.
 We appreciate their commitment to our community and will help support them as they grow." "My colleagues and I will vouch for this community wholeheartedly.
 Purdue has done so many things right in the last few years that it is a compelling place for anyone considering a startup or even a location for scaling up.
 Alumni have to come back to town and see the changes that have happened in the past five years," he said. "There is a tremendous energy and momentum that will continue to help companies grow.
 I can see a future in which several Inc. 500 and even Fortune 500 companies get their start here." Passageways was founded in 2003 with the vision to "To make the World more Collaborative.
" Today, we are an industry-leading provider of collaborative portal solutions, including employee intranet portals, board portals and community portals.
 We continue to impact organizations of all sizes across the United States, Caribbean Islands, Russia and Canada. The Purdue Research Park
, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country. The parks are home to about 200 companies that employ about 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 Source: Paroon Chadha, Passageways LLC, 765-532-3820, paroon@passageways.com </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/college-of-agriculture,-purdue-university-libraries-seek-graduate-students-for-semester-long-data-literacy-pilot-program.html
<Content> College of Agriculture, Purdue University Libraries Seek Graduate Students for Semester-Long Data Literacy Pilot Program
 College of Agriculture, Purdue University Libraries Seek Graduate Students for Semester-Long Data Literacy Pilot Program WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 – Purdue University's College of Agriculture, with support from Purdue Libraries, is seeking to recruit graduate students in the College of Agriculture for a semester-long pilot data literacy course to be offered in spring of 2014 with some limited follow-up in the fall.
 The course will teach graduate students the knowledge and skills they need to be successful professionals in their discipline. Accepted students will receive a stipend of $1,500 for participating in this course.
 Applications are due by 5 p.m. Nov. 18. Research in agriculture and related fields is growing more and more dependent on the application of data.
 Emerging research professionals and data producers need to understand how to manage, organize, describe, disseminate and archive their data sets for themselves and others.
 In addition to teaching current trends and thinking in managing, organizing, sharing and curating research data, students will actively participate in shaping the course to address real-world challenges and issues they face in developing and working with research data sets.
 Participants will be applying what they learn to their own data sets as a part of the course. Through offering this pilot, the Libraries and the College of Agriculture will develop a better understanding of the issues with data that are universally relevant across departments.
 Students will benefit from receiving intense, hands-on training in managing their own data. One of the goals for the course is to create a community of students knowledgeable with data management and curation issues who will then be able to spread awareness and best practices of data management with fellow students and others in their own labs.
 Space in this program is limited. The pilot program can only accept five to 10 graduate students from the College of Agriculture There is $1,500 stipend, and applications
 are due by 5 p.m. Nov. 18. Students will be selected through an application process. Although doctoral students are preferred, the course is also open to Master's level students provided that they meet the criteria listed below.
 * Students must be actively working with or developing a research data set as a part of their lab work and/or their scholarship.
 * The student's adviser will be asked to participate as a means to gauge student learning from the course. Students will need to get the consent of their adviser to participate and secure an agreement from their adviser to be interviewed at the beginning of the semester and at the end of the semester.
 For an application and details, contact Marianne Stowell Bracke, associate professor of library science/agricultural information specialist at 
mbracke@purdue.edu or 765-496-9620. Sources: Jake Carlson, associate professor of Library Science/data services specialist, 765-494-6665, 
jakecarlson@purdue.edu Marianne Stowell Bracke, 765-496-9620, mbracke@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/college-of-education-to-honor-4-alumni.html
<Content> College of Education to honor 4 alumni
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's College of Education has named its 2013 Distinguished Alumni Award winners. * Jan Hansen, president and CEO of Educate Tanzania.
 She earned a doctorate in educational psychology from Purdue in 1988. * Carol A. Loehr, retired educator and community volunteer and national advocate for mental health awareness and suicide prevention.
 She earned a bachelor's degree in elementary and special education in 1965. * Albert Kwing-Wong Siu, vice president and general manager of PAREXEL Academy, a unit of PARAEXEL, a global clinical research and regulatory consulting and outsourcing company.
 He earned a doctorate in counseling psychology in 1979. * Deborah S. Teuscher, retired science teacher with the Metropolitan School District of Pike Township in Indianapolis.
 She earned a master's degree in science education in 1994. Source: Michael Davids, College of Education director of communication, 765-494-0568, 
davids3@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/college-of-health-and-human-sciences-dean-finalists-to-participate-in-open-forums.html
<Content> College of Health and Human Sciences dean finalists to participate in open forums
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The four finalists selected as candidates for the dean of Purdue University's College of Health and Human Sciences will participate in open forums on campus in October and November.
 "The search advisory committee is very pleased with these four candidates, and we encourage people to attend the public forums so they can learn about these leaders," said Willie Reed, dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine and search committee chair.
 "Purdue's new college is off to a great start, and selecting the dean is the next step in moving the college forward." The College of Health and Human Sciences was launched in July 2010 as part of Purdue's New Synergies strategic plan to realign nine academic units and elevate Purdue's reputation in health and human sciences.
 Christine Ladisch, professor of consumer science, has served as the college's inaugural dean. All forums will take place in Pfendler Hall's Deans Auditorium.
 The candidates and their forum dates are: * Jack Turman Jr., professor and program director of the Division of Physical Therapy Education at the University of Nebraska Medical Center.
 His open forum is 10 a.m. Oct. 25. * Michael Delp, professor and chair of the Department of Applied Physiology and Kinesiology at the University of Florida.
 His open forum is 2:30 p.m. Oct. 29. * Ronald T. Brown, provost and senior vice president of academic affairs at Wayne State University and professor of psychology.
 His open forum is 11 a.m. Nov. 5. * Christine Ladisch, inaugural dean of the College of Health and Human Sciences at Purdue. Her open forum is 2 p.m.
 Nov. 15. There are more than 4,500 undergraduate and 500 graduate students in the College of Health and Human Sciences, as well as 207 faculty and 391 staff members.
 The college is home to the departments of Consumer Science; Health and Kinesiology; Human Development and Family Studies; Nutrition Science; Psychological Sciences; Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences; and the schools of Health Sciences, Hospitality and Tourism Management, and Nursing.
 The Department of Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences was recently ranked nationally. The college's nine distinguished professors are in the departments of Psychological Sciences; Human Development and Family Studies; Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences; and Nutrition Science.
 The Department of Nutrition Science also is home to a member of the Institute of Medicine. Source: Willie Reed, 765-494-7608, wreed@purdue.edu
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/college-of-technology-week-hardwired-for-success.html
<Content> College of Technology week 'Hardwired for Success'
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The Purdue College of Technology will kick off its seventh annual Tech Week on Feb. 23 under the theme "Hardwired for Success.
" The week begins with the debut appearance of the Association of Electrical Technologists at the regional Rube Goldberg competition.
 The group of nine technology students will represent the College of Technology in the world-famous competition. Tech Week activities last through March 1 and include events such as a panel discussion with honored alumni, a guest lecture and a chance to interact with the college's corporate partners.
 "With our alumni awards and corporate partner days, we have a chance to shine a brighter spotlight on the types of careers our students can expect with their degrees," said Steven Lincoln, the College of Technology's interim director of communication.
 "The public events help educate the community about College of Technology impacts and offerings." On Feb 26, General Motors officials will speak to students across a variety of areas in technology, showing them what a degree in technology could translate to at the corporation.
 Rockwell Automation will host a similar event on Feb. 28. Both of these interactions are daylong events in Knoy Hall. The Feb. 28 Dean's Distinguished Lecture featuring Jonathan Antevy, co-founder of e-Builder.net, will take place from 3:30-5 p.m.
 in Purdue's Fowler Hall. He will speak on "Going Online to Prosper Offline." His master's thesis turned business, e-Builder.net, is a form of construction management software that opened up new doors for technology usage in the construction industry.
 Antevy will speak about his experiences in starting his company. Technology students graduating this May or August will be honored at the FareWELcome lunch from 11:30 a.m.
 to 1:30 p.m. Feb. 27 in the Purdue Memorial Union South Ballroom. The college will treat these future alumni to a free hot lunch and a graduation gift.
 Fourteen CoT alumni who have made significant achievements in their fields will be honored during Tech Week. Five members of the group will receive the honor as distinguished alumni and will hold a panel discussion at 2 p.m.
 March 1 at the Purdue Memorial Union Anniversary Drawing Room to answer questions from students and the general public about "Preparing for the Global Workforce.
" Source: Steven Lincoln, 765-494-9201, slincoln@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/college-of-veterinary-medicine-names-2013-distinguished-alumni.html
<Content> College of Veterinary Medicine names 2013 distinguished alumni
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's College of Veterinary Medicine recently honored the recipients of its 2013 Distinguished Alumnus Awards.
 * Andrews, of Riverside, Calif., owns the Woodcrest Veterinary Clinic. He has served in leadership positions in several veterinary medicine organizations, including the presidency of the American Animal Hospital Association.
 He earned his Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree in 1983. * Wardrip, of Palos Heights, Ill., co-owns the Crestwood Animal Clinic with his wife and classmate Sue.
 He became board-certified by the American College of Laboratory Animal Medicine and is associate professor of clinical surgery and chief of the Large Animal Clinical Services at the University of Chicago.
 More information about Andrews and Wardrip, including links to videos about each recipient, is available at http://vet.purdue.edu/2013fallconference-review/distinguished-alumni-awards.php
 Source: Kevin Doerr, director of public affairs for the College of Veterinary Medicine, 765-494-8216, doerrkr@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/college-students-balance-academic-success-with-grief,-ill-parents.html
<Content> College students balance academic success with grief, ill parents
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Even though losing a loved one or being away from a seriously ill parent is common for college students, many can feel isolated when balancing school and family issues, says a Purdue University professor who specializes in grief and loss issues.
 "Many students are not comfortable talking with their peers about grief or family illness because they don't want it to define them, and, as a result, these students are often balancing stress and sadness on their own," says Heather Servaty-Seib, counseling psychologist and an associate professor of educational studies.
 Statistics show that 40 percent of college students are grieving a death within the last two years, and the number of students with chronically or terminally ill parents is not tracked.
 Servaty-Seib's research with grieving college students has indicated that students dealing with grief often struggle academically, particularly during the semester of their death loss.
 Whether it's a family death or serious illness, students may have to cope with stresses such as feeling guilty for being away from home or related financial issues connected to a family illness.
 "Balancing the role as academic-focused student and the child of someone who is very ill is not easy," Servaty-Seib says. "Often, well-meaning parents don't communicate about the illness or daily problems to their children because they are protecting them.
 Sick family members often request that the student stay at school and focus on being a student. But then the student is at school worrying.
 And when the student is home, then they are worried about academic challenges." Colleges and universities are recognizing the importance of supporting students in these situations through official grief absence policies and student groups.
 Servaty-Seib says more can be done. "Purdue is just one of a few schools with a policy that supports students who have a death in the family," she says.
 "At a large institution, like Purdue, a policy or student group makes a tangible difference for students who are struggling with grief or family illness.
" Purdue's policy served 480 students last year by helping them take an official leave of absence for funeral services and making arrangements for missed classes or coursework.
 The formal absence policy also was an opportunity for the Office of the Dean of Students to offer individual counseling resources to the grieving students, says Lou Ann Hamilton, assistant dean of students.
 The office also hears from students who need assistance or counseling when they have a parent who is chronically or terminally ill.
 "We see many students struggle when a parent is ill," Hamilton says. "They are forced to grow up faster when they need to be home on weekends to help care for a sick parent or younger siblings.
 It is very hard on them and can affect their success as a student." Starting this fall, Purdue also is home to one of the few dozen college chapters of Students of Ailing Mothers & Fathers Support Network.
 "Every student chapter is unique to its college campus, but in their own way they provide support and help normalize the experience these students are going through," says Servaty-Seib, the group's adviser at Purdue and member of the mental health board of the 
National Ailing Mothers & Fathers Support Network. "A positive of this group is channeling grief through actions. Taking action, such as organizing a fundraiser, can be powerful for people who don't want or need to talk about their grief.
 It will be interesting to see how this student-driven group takes shape on campus." </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/college-students-working-out-at-campus-gyms-get-better-grades.html
<Content> College students working out at campus gyms get better grades
 Garrett Quathamer, a junior in anthropology from Indianapolis, climbs the bouldering wall two to three times a week at the France A.
 Córdova Recreational Sports Center. Data collected by the center shows that students who visit the facility at least 16 times a month earned a GPA of 3.10 or higher.
 The correlation between grades and gym use also is shown with moderate users. (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - College students who visit their campus gyms are more likely to succeed in the classroom, according to data from Purdue University.
 "Students who worked out at Purdue's gym at least once a week were more likely to earn a higher grade point average than students who visited less or not at all," says Tricia Zelaya (pronounced Zah-LIE-ah), assistant director for student development and assessment at Purdue's 
Division of Recreational Sports. "Going to the gym is so much more than going to the gym. Students who are motivated by fitness and wellness tend to have better time management skills, and research shows that being fit is good for the mind.
 It all ties together." For example, the more than 1,820 students who visit Purdue's France A. Córdova Recreational Sports Center at least 16 times a month earned a GPA of 3.10 or higher.
 The correlation between grades and gym use also is shown with moderate users. Students who used the gym at least seven times a month had an average GPA of 3.06.
 This data is based on spring semester 2010 gym use and grades, which was tracked by students checking in using their student identification number.
 Using these identification numbers, school officials can then generate a report based on GPA. Because the facility was under renovation the last two years, comparable data for recent semesters is not available, but will be later this year once a full semester is recorded.
 So far, the preliminary data is showing the same trend, Zelaya says. Kirsty Crofton, a senior in biomedical engineering from The Woodlands, Texas, lifts weights at the France A.
 Córdova Recreational Sports Center. Crofton visits the campus facility four to five times a week as a break from classes, and sometimes she combines fitness with studying by reviewing study notes while riding a stationary bicycle.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo Renovations to Purdue's facility are part of a national trend. The National Intramural-Recreational Sports Association reports that more than $1.7 billion dollars has been spent or is allocated for new construction, renovations or expansions for U.S.
 college recreational facilities in 2010-2015. "Universities are making this investment to improve student life and retain students, but we think something more is happening," Zelaya says.
 "Some might assume time at a gym is a distraction from academics, but it is really part of the learning landscape." Bonnie Tjeerdsma Blankenship, Purdue professor of health and kinesiology, says there is research that shows how physical activity has a positive impact on student academic achievement, including children preschool through 12th grade.
 "It's not a surprise to see this relationship for college students," says Blankenship, who monitors a Midwest study that looks at how an exercise-based afterschool program contributes to elementary school students' cognitive function.
 "The cognitive benefits of physical activity is something I emphasize in our physical education teacher courses, and it's a lifestyle habit that is never too young to learn.
" Facilities such as Purdue's are being renovated to increase space and to add services that support health and wellness. At Purdue, registered dietitians are on staff to discuss nutrition, and students have access to personal trainers and fitness consultants.
 Representatives from the Student Wellness Office are also onsite. "Student success research shows that engaged students do better academically, and we see that when they come here with their friends as well as classmates or study groups," Zelaya says.
 "This is a place where students learn to use physical activity to cope with stress. Being fit also is about getting the appropriate amount of sleep, and that is key to doing well in school.
 Our goals for success go beyond the classroom and are aimed at helping young people develop healthy habits for life." While many universities have studied user demographics, such as frequency of on- or off-campus students who visit the gym, Zelaya says comparing grades with gym use is a new trend, which is made easy by new student identification card swipe systems in these updated buildings.
 Purdue's center was part of a student-driven $98 million renovation to expand the facility, which now has about 355,000 square feet and nearly 7,000 student users daily.
 The renovation tripled the number of strength and cardio machines and added a 1,200 square-foot cycling center. The facility also features a recreational pool, climbing and bouldering walls, designated racquetball and wallyball courts, an indoor hockey and soccer court, and running tracks.
 Purdue was home to the first university facility in 1957 dedicated solely to students for their recreational sports needs. Note to Journalists
: Journalists interested in speaking to the source or visiting the Purdue center to interview students can contact Amy Patterson Neubert, Purdue News Service, at 765-494-9723, 
apatterson@purdue.edu. B-roll footage and related broadcast-quality interviews are available to journalists by contacting Jim Schenke, Purdue News Service, at 765-237-7296, 
jschenke@purdue.edu. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/colloquium-to-explore-engineering-education-at-purdue.html
<Content> Colloquium to explore engineering education at Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. —The annual Interdisciplinary Engineering Colloquium at Purdue University on Nov. 14 will focus on the teachers and researchers who were trailblazers in engineering education.
 The School of Engineering Education, which is celebrating its 10th anniversary, will present "Indomitable Innovators: Pioneers in Engineering Education Research at Purdue" at 3:30 p.m.
 in Armstrong Hall's Kurz Atrium. The event is free and open to the public. The program will look back at scholars and researchers from the 1950s on who helped lay the foundation for engineering education and the school.
 Panelists will be John Lindenlaub, professor emeritus of electrical and computer engineering; Phillip Wankat, Clifton L. Lovell Distinguished Professor of Chemical Engineering and Engineering Education; and Frank Oreovicz, retired education specialist in communication in chemical engineering.
 David Radcliffe, the Kamyar Haghighi Head of the School of Engineering Education, will be moderator. William LeBold, professor emeritus of engineering and director of educational research and information systems, will be featured in pre-recorded video segments.
 Before and after the colloquium, those attending will be able to view the first public showing of "Transforming Engineering Education Through Scholarship and Research," a video celebrating the school's anniversary.
 The colloquium series brings together speakers from engineering, the humanities and social sciences, and education to discuss a topical issue.
 It is sponsored by the Professor Bruce Johnson Education Fund in the School of Engineering Education. Source: Lisa Tally, School of Engineering Education director of communications, 765-494-9391, 
lisat@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/company-launches-new-software-program-to-help-firms-boost-sales-and-marketing.html
<Content> Company launches new software program to help firms boost sales and marketing
 INDIANAPOLIS – NitroMojo LLC has launched a new software program that helps firms boost sales and marketing by streamlining voice of the customer and sales channel integration to improve customer relationship management and improve sales outcomes.
 The Indianapolis-based business specializes in customer relationship management, or CRM, through a software service program that provides integrated marketing solutions for manufacturers who sell through distributors, dealers, retailers and other sales channels.
 Debbie Pierce, president of NitroMojo, said the firm's Web-enabled 2.0 software program includes programming that allows marketing departments to post electronic materials such as updated pricing lists, videos, brochures and photographs on an integrated program.
 "Most companies maintain corporate information on a shared server where professionals can look for and find the information, sales materials or a client list as they prepare to make a sales call," Pierce said.
 "With NitroMojo 2.0 the information is already integrated in the company's electronic network so everyone is pulling from the same program.
 This means they are getting the most current price, customer and merchandise lists they need to do their jobs in a more efficient manner.
" Most currently available software service programs are "shell" or empty systems that require companies to pay for customization features and then incorporate the features into their marketing network.
 "It's like buying a house with no walls or flooring because the companies typically must spend an additional $500,000 to $1 million on customer management programs to build out the program," Pierce said.
 "The NitroMojo program comes ready to implement and incorporates the sales channel management and voice of the customer into the customer relationship management program so all that needs to be done is to configure company-specific positioning.
" * Have prewritten emails and other company communication so a company's messaging is consistent. "The program increases efficiency and reduces the need for information technology resources so a company can focus on their customer base," Pierce said.
 "At the end of the day, that can mean the difference between the success or failure for a company." NitroMojo is a Web-enabled and service as a service program that contains the essential functionality that marketing and sales people need to do their jobs more effectively and efficiently.
 The NitroMojo team of technical experts and sales and marketing consultants will listen to how your processes work and customize the product to fit your needs.
 The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country in four locations across Indiana.
 The parks are home to nearly 240 companies that employ more than 4,200 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/completing-form-in-advance-speeds-up-first-visit-at-center-for-healthy-living.html
<Content> Completing form in advance speeds up first visit at Center for Healthy Living
 Clients who are about to go to their first appointment at the Center for Healthy Living may now complete the customary patient questionnaire beforehand.
 The form asks for general information, such as the client's name, address and age, and then gathers the client's health history.
 Clients can save time at the center by completing the form before arriving for their appointments. The form is required only for the first visit.
 * Clients may print the form from the center's website, complete it by hand and then bring it to the first appointment. * Clients may complete and submit the form electronically through the Center for Healthy Living patient portal at 
https://purdue.opticonsite.com. The portal calls the questionnaire the "intake form." For links to the form and instructions, clients should go to 
www.purdue.edu/healthyliving and then click the "Complete patient questionnaire" link in the Things to Do box on the left side of the page.
 Anyone with questions may call the Center for Healthy Living at 49-40111. The center is in the Purdue West Shopping Plaza at 1400 W.
 State St.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/computer-science-workshop-for-students-and-parents-asks-are-you-smarter-than-your-5th-grader.html
<Content> Computer science workshop for students and parents asks 'Are you smarter than your 5th grader?'
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's Department of Computer Science invites parents and children to create digital worlds, work with robotics and design interactive creations together through the Are you smarter than YOUR 5th grader?
 program. The program offers programming and graphic design activities for students in grades four through six and their parents or guardians.
 Parent and student pairs can choose two different activities for each session. * The ALICE storytell­ing challenge uses the ALICE 3D graphic design program to create a digital world to tell a story.
 *The Pico Crickets robotics challenge uses a kit with lights, motors, sensors and other devices to elicit an action or reaction from a robot based on stimuli.
 *The Scratch programming challenge uses the Scratch programming language to create interactive stories, animations, games, music and art and share creations on the Web.
 The workshops are 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Nov. 10 and Dec. 1 in the Lawson Computer Science Building. Participants can choose to attend one or both sessions.
 Sessions will be led by local K-12 teachers and supported by current Purdue computer science students. Lunch will be provided for all attendees.
 The program is free, but registration is required. Online registration is available at http://www.tinyurl.com/purduesmarter The Department of Computer Science K-12 outreach staff developed the program.
 More information is available at: http://www.cs.purdue.edu/external_relations/k-12_outreach/programs/Smarter/index.sxhtml </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/conservation-easements-preserve-land-for-agriculture.html
<Content> Conservation easements preserve land for agriculture
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Landowners who to want preserve their agricultural land and prevent future development can consider granting a conservation easement.
 A conservation easement is the gifting of the development rights on a piece of land to a land trust, which is a private, nonprofit organization that works to conserve land.
 In doing so, the landowner not only ensures the land can never be commercially developed, even if sold, but also receives federal income tax deductions.
 "Conservation easements on farmland are authorized by Indiana law," said Gerry Harrison, Purdue Extension agricultural economist.
 "The grantee, or charitable entity, has the responsibility under the law to see that the land is not developed for anything other than the landowner's retained purposes: agricultural production and perhaps a homestead.
" In this type of voluntary agreement, the landowner retains land ownership, while the land trust makes sure that the terms of the conservation easement are followed.
 Landowners can reserve certain rights in the deed of the agreement, such as building a house or farm facilities - something Harrison said they should be careful to consider.
 Landowners considering a conservation easement also should consider a current tax amendment that allows greater-than-normal tax deductions.
 "The gift of a conservation easement provides a federal income tax charitable deduction," Harrison said. "The allowable charitable deduction was expanded by an amendment to the Internal Revenue Code in 2006.
 That provision was temporary, but has been extended through 2013." The temporary provision allows farmers or ranchers to deduct 100 percent of their contribution base (adjusted gross income computed without any net operating loss carryback to the taxable year) in a given year if at least 50 percent of their income is derived from farming.
 For example, if a farmer had an adjusted gross income of $100,000 and gave a $90,000 conservation easement, plus $10,000 in other charitable contributions, he or she could deduct the entire $90,000 in the tax year of the donation, as well as the additional $10,000.
 With a higher value conservation easement, the taxpayer could carry over anything above $100,000 for a maximum of 15 years. Farming and ranching corporations that donate conservation easements also can qualify for the 100 percent limit.
 According to Harrison, ongoing government budget discussions mean the extension of the enhanced deduction for the gift of a conservation easement might or might not be available after 2013.
 "Interested landowners would be wise to consult with an accountant or tax lawyer on how these rules might reduce their federal income tax liability and how future gifts or inheritance of the land with a conservation easement might reduce values for lifetime gifts and the federal estate tax," he said.
 Even if the enhanced deduction provision is not extended beyond the end of the year, Harrison said, gifting a conservation easement still has tax benefits.
 For example, the landowner would be responsible for the cost of a professional appraisal to determine the fair market value minus the agricultural value of the parcel of land.
 The difference is the value of the conservation easement. "Costs involved include the appraisal and the service fee paid to the entity that takes the easement," Harrison said.
 "These costs should be easily offset by the income tax savings from the charitable tax deduction of the value of the easement." 
Harrison said landowners interested in pursuing a conservation easement agreement should consult a lawyer because the deed over development rights is a legal document.
 * Tax Treatment of Conservation Easements (ID-275) by Bill Hoover, Purdue University professor of natural resources and social science.
 Both publications can be downloaded for free in Purdue Extension's The Education Store at http://www.the-education-store.com/ by searching their ID numbers.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/cooks-to-be-conferred-dreyfus-prize,-medal.html
<Content> Cooks to be conferred Dreyfus Prize, medal
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University professor R. Graham Cooks will be awarded the 2013 Dreyfus Prize in Chemical Sciences during a 4 p.m.
 ceremony on Tuesday (Sept. 24) in Fowler Hall. Cooks, the Henry Bohn Hass Distinguished Professor of Chemistry, won the prize in recognition of his innovations in the field of mass spectrometry and analytical chemistry.
 The international prize, given biennially by the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, consists of $250,000, a citation and a medal.
 Cooks will present a lecture about the societal impact of mass spectrometry and where the field is headed. Henry C. Walter, president of the foundation; John I.
 Brauman, foundation director; Timothy Sands, Purdue provost and the Basil S. Turner Professor of Engineering; and Jeffrey Roberts, the Frederick L.
 Hovde Dean of the College of Science, also will speak during the ceremony. The event is free and open to the public. Cooks is a pioneer in mass spectrometry, which identifies the contents of a sample by measuring the masses of its ions, or electrically charged molecules.
 An early success in his career was the development of tandem mass spectrometry, which enabled devices to not only identify the molecules present in complex samples but also to measure the amounts and ratios of the molecules.
 He later developed ambient ionization techniques that allowed testing to be done in the air or directly on a surface in its natural environment.
 The ambient ionization techniques also paved the way for faster, more portable mass spectrometry devices. Cooks and his collaborator Zheng Ouyang, Purdue associate professor of biomedical engineering and electrical and computer engineering, then miniaturized the once sedan-sized mass spectrometer to a shoebox-sized device that has been likened to Star Trek's tricorder.
 Cooks and his team have fine-tuned the tools for use in molecular imaging for cancer diagnostics and surgery; therapeutic drug monitoring; testing for biomarkers in urine; and the identification of food-borne pathogens, bacteria, pesticides and explosives residues.
 Cooks is associated with several Purdue research centers, including Bindley Bioscience Center, the Purdue Center for Cancer Research and the Center for Analytical Instrumentation Development.
 The New York-based Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation is a nonprofit organization devoted to the advancement of the chemical sciences.
 It was established in 1946 by chemist, inventor and businessman Camille Dreyfus, who directed that the foundation's purpose be "to advance the science of chemistry, chemical engineering and related sciences as a means of improving human relations and circumstances.
" In broad terms, foundation programs advance young faculty of early accomplishment, develop leadership in environmental chemistry, and enhance chemistry education and public interest in chemistry.
 The inaugural Dreyfus Prize was awarded in 2009 to George Whitesides of Harvard University in the field of materials chemistry. The 2011 Dreyfus Prize was awarded to Tobin Marks of Northwestern University in the field of catalysis.
 Related release: http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-professor-wins-dreyfus-prize-in-the-chemical-sciences.html
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/corn-crops-expected-to-set-record,-but-not-as-large-as-anticipated.html
<Content> Corn crops expected to set record, but not as large as anticipated
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The U.S. corn crop is projected to reach record production this year but won't be quite as large as initially expected because heavy spring rain in parts of the country prevented some acres from being planted, according to the U.S.
 Department of Agriculture's Friday (Nov. 8) crop production report. The report gave farmers and commodities traders their first glimpse at U.S.
 crop production since September because the partial federal government shutdown canceled the October report. The USDA's National Agricultural Statistics Service is projecting that corn production will reach 14 billion bushels, up nearly 1 billion bushels from the record set in 2007.
 While a record, Purdue Extension agricultural economist Chris Hurt said production won't be as high as some expected, which is good news for farmers.
 "There was a lot of fear coming into this report that the corn crop would be so large that prices would be extremely low," he said.
 "But while yields were up substantially, prevented planting acres offset some of that." USDA Lowered harvested corn acres by nearly 1.9 million and soybean acres by about 700,000, primarily because of land that did not get planted due to excessive spring rains.
 Another positive result for farmers is that USDA recognized the growing demand for the nation's corn and soybean crops from both export buyers, such as China, and domestic buyers, such as livestock producers.
 "A lot of people are breathing a sigh of relief that the crop is not larger and that there's a growing demand base for the crops produced," Hurt said.
 "This report might provide a bottom for prices." The USDA currently is estimating the national average farm-level corn price for the 2013 crop will be $4.50 per bushel, compared with $6.89 per bushel for the 2012 crop.
 USDA projected national soybean production to reach 3.26 billion bushels, which would represent the third-largest crop on record.
 The national average price received for 2013 soybeans is estimated to be $12.15, compared with $14.40 for the 2012 crop. According to Hurt, soybeans could offer some income stabilization for crop farmers.
 "We haven't seen the same erosion in soybean prices that we have in corn because of the strong demand from China and tight world supplies until the South American crop comes into the markets later this winter," he said.
 "Soybeans could be a stabilizing influence in farm incomes. "It's never just about the size of the crop but what buyers you have and at what price they will pay for it.
" The overall large corn and soybean crops will be welcome news to end users, such as processors and livestock producers, and ultimately food and fuel consumers.
 With grain more readily available and at lower prices, food price inflation should fall below the general rate of inflation. For the last two years, food price inflation has been higher than general inflation.
 Indiana farmers are following the national trend with projected record corn production at more than 1 billion bushels for the first time.
 At 174 bushels per acre, the state’s farmers also are expected to break the record for yield. The record of 171 bushels per acre was set in 2009.
 This compares with a national per-acre corn-yield average of 160.4 bushels, which Hurt said would be a fairly normal yield. The state's soybean farmers are expected to produce an estimated 2.6 million bushels on yields of 50 bushels per acre.
 That would tie per-acre yields from 2006 and fall just short of the record 51.5 bushels per acre in 2004. These yields compare with 43 bushels per acre nationally, which Hurt said also is close to normal expectations.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/creator-of-aids-memorial-quilt-to-speak-at-purdue-on-nov.-29.html
<Content> Creator of AIDS Memorial Quilt to speak at Purdue on Nov. 29
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The creator of the AIDS Memorial Quilt will speak Nov. 29 at Purdue University as part of AIDS Awareness Week.
 West Lafayette native Cleve Jones will present "Stitching a Revolution: Cleve Jones and the AIDS Memorial Quilt" at 7:30 p.m. in the Purdue Memorial Union Ballroom.
 The lecture, which is free and open to the public, is being coordinated by Purdue's LGBTQ Center. Jones conceived the idea of a quilt in 1985 during a candlelight memorial for slain gay San Francisco supervisor Harvey Milk and Mayor George Moscone.
 He created the first quilt panel in 1987 to honor his friend Marvin Feldman. Since then, the AIDS Memorial Quilt has honored the lives of more than 94,000 Americans.
 Jones' memoir, "Stitching a Revolution," was a New York Times bestseller and he also served as a consultant for the award-winning movie "Milk.
" The co-founder of the San Francisco AIDS Foundation, he has appeared on "60 Minutes," "Nightline," "Good Morning America," "The Oprah Winfrey Show," "Frontline" and NPR.
 Sections of the quilt unique to the Purdue community will be displayed Nov. 26-30 in Purdue Memorial Union, Room 118. The entire quilt weighs 54 tons and is composed of more than 48,000 panels.
 The lecture and quilt display are part of AIDS Awareness Week, which runs Nov. 26-30. The week's theme is Silent to be Heard. Other scheduled events include:
 * Throughout the week. Vow of Silence. A verbal and/or social media silence for a minimum of eight hours, which can be spread throughout the week.
 To participate, "like" this event at http://www.facebook.com/silent2beheard * Nov. 26. 5 p.m. Purdue Bell Tower. March to End the Silence.
 Participants will march to the Black Cultural Center, where refreshments will be served. * Nov. 27. 6 p.m. Chapel of the Good Shepherd, 610 Meridian St.
, West Lafayette. Religious Communities and the Global Response to HIV/AIDS - A Conversation Circle. * Nov. 28. 6 p.m. Pride Lafayette Community Center, 640 Main St.
, Lafayette. The documentary "We Were Here" will be shown and followed by a discussion. * Nov. 30. Silent to be Heard day of action.
 People are urged to wear red to highlight Purdue's commitment to developing students that understand and are aware of HIV/AIDS. 
"HIV/AIDS education is critical to reducing the spread of this deadly infection," said Lowell Kane, director of the Purdue LGBTQ Center.
 "There are an estimated 1.2 million people living with the HIV virus in the United States, and millions of people worldwide become infected each year.
 These events will educate students and increase awareness about the history of HIV/AIDS, prevention of HIV infection and responsible decision-making.
" Sponsors of AIDS Awareness Week include the Purdue LGBTQ Center, Division of Diversity and Inclusion, Division of Student Affairs, Purdue Student Union Board, Purdue Black Cultural Center, Purdue Student Wellness Office, Pride Lafayette Community Center, Black Graduate Student Association, American Pharmacists Association, College of Science, Black Caucus of Faculty and Staff, Chapel of the Good Shepherd, and Wesley Foundation Campus Ministry at Purdue.
 Source: Lowell Kane, 765-496-6231, LGBTQ@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/cross-cultural-communication-topic-of-lecture-at-purdue.html
<Content> Cross-cultural communication topic of lecture at Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Derald Wing Sue, a professor of psychology and education at Columbia University, on Nov. 14 will lead a discussion about cross-cultural communication at Stewart Center's Fowler Hall.
 The 3 p.m. talk is titled "A Lesson in Cross-Cultural Communication," and is free and open to the public. Sue also is an author and lecturer.
 With more than 150 publications, 17 books and numerous media productions, he is one of the most cited multicultural scholars today.
 His most recent book, "Microaggressions in Everyday Life: Race, Gender and Sexual Orientation," won the 2010 National Diversity and Inclusion Book Prize from UnityFirst.com and Forbes Diversity.
 He also wrote "Microaggressions and Marginality: Manifestations, Dynamics and Impact." Sue says microaggressions are brief and everyday slights, indignities and denigrating messages sent to diverse community members by well-intentioned majority community members.
 He says microaggressions usually happen at a subconscious level, are not intended to offend, but they can be very damaging. Sue's current research involves the relationship of microaggressions and difficult dialogues on race.
 He is working on a book titled "The Psychology of Racial Dialogues." The Office of the Provost and the Division of Diversity and Inclusion
 are sponsoring the talk as part of The Power of the Spoken Word Program, which is designed to show how communication can affect the ability to build a more inclusive campus community.
 Source: G. Christine Taylor, vice provost for diversity and chief diversity officer, 765-494-6969, diversity@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/cultural-studies-professor-to-speak-at-purdue-on-women-in-hip-hop.html
<Content> Cultural studies professor to speak at Purdue on women in 'Hip-Hop'
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Reiland Rabaka, an associate professor of African, African American and Caribbean Studies at the University of Colorado at Boulder, will speak on March 20 at Purdue University on "The Hip-Hop Women's Movement.
" The talk, titled "The Hip-Hop Women's Movement: From R&B Divas and the Sisters of the Civil Rights Movement to Female Rappers in the Hip Hop Movement," will be at 7 p.m.
 in Stewart Center, Room 214. The Purdue Black Cultural Center and the Susan Bulkeley Butler Center for Leadership Excellence are sponsoring the presentation.
 Rabaka also is an affiliate professor in the Women and Gender Studies program and a research fellow at the Center for Studies of Ethnicity and Race in America at the University of Colorado at Boulder.
 His teaching experience includes several graduate faculty appointments in the College of Music, departments of Sociology and Religious Studies, the School of Education and the Critical Theory Program at UC-Boulder.
 Rabaka has published 10 books, his research has been published in several journals and he is an editorial board member of the Journal of African American Studies, among others.
 His social, cultural and political commentaries and analysis have been featured on major TV news networks and online sources. Source:
 Renee Thomas, 765-494-3091, rathomas@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/cyber-cop-says-newtown-shooters-footprints-are-in-virtual-cloud.html
<Content> Cyber cop says Newtown shooter's footprints are in virtual 'cloud'
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A professor and law enforcement investigator who is also among the nation's top cyberforensics researchers says Adam Lanza's smashed hard drive is not a dead end - the Newtown, Conn.
, killer's communication is invariably rampant online. Purdue University's Marcus Rogers is head of Purdue Cyber Forensics Center and trains police investigators around the world.
 He says obsessed gamers like Lanza live their imaginary and real lives in virtual spaces much like the rest of us use Facebook and Twitter.
 "A record of what he has been playing, saying and reading is out there," Rogers says. "You just need to know where and how to look, be willing to turn over lots of stones, and have a little luck.
" Rogers, also an expert in criminal pathology, said Lanza wanted the world to finally know who he was and got our attention with an unimaginably heinous act.
 He is keeping the spotlight on himself by slowing the search into his motives. "If Lanza really wanted to hide his tracks, he wouldn't have used a hammer to attempt to destroy his computer," Rogers says.
 "That entire hard drive would be sleeping with the fish." Rogers says researchers in the United Kingdom are extracting information from the most distressed hard drives using sophisticated technology developed by the KGB.
 But even if Lanza shredded his hard drive into confetti, Rogers said Lanza's digital footprints are in the third-party servers that record all of our online discourse, including email.
 Rogers is a fellow at the Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security doing research focused on psychological profiling, applied cyberforensics and cyberterrorism.
 He has been featured in an array of national publications on these topics. Note to Journalists: Marcus Rogers is available in person and via phone, Skype, Vyvx and satellite uplink.
 For more information, please contact Jim Schenke, Purdue News Service, at 765-237-7296, jschenke@purdue,edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/cybersecurity-firm-to-dedicate-facility-in-purdue-research-park.html
<Content> Cybersecurity firm to dedicate facility in Purdue Research Park
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. and TAMPA, Fla. - Officials from Florida-based Sypris Electronics LLC and city and county officials will dedicate a new research and development center at 10 a.m.
 Thursday (Oct. 10) in the Herman and Heddy Kurz Purdue Technology Center, 1281 Win Hentschel Blvd. The location will enhance collaboration for ongoing research between the company and Purdue University's Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security (
CERIAS). Officials scheduled to speak during the dedication include John J. Walsh, president of Sypris Electronics; Joseph B. Hornett, senior vice president, treasurer and COO of 
Purdue Research Foundation; Joel Rasmus, director of strategic relations at CERIAS; West Lafayette Mayor John Dennis; and Tippecanoe County Commissioner John Knochel.
 Tours of the Sypris Electronics facility in the Kurz Purdue Technology Center will be conducted immediately following the event.
 Sypris Electronics is a world-class, integrated systems solutions provider. Our ruggedized electronic products, advanced engineering services and complete electronic manufacturing capabilities are aligned to provide our customers the best people, practices and technologies to continually exceed expectations.
 We consistently promote an agile, innovative culture by strategically partnering with leading-edge technology companies, agencies and universities.
 With over 45 years of experience, Sypris Electronics is proud to develop, manufacture and integrate leading technologies into mission critical electronics systems that secure America's interest.
 The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation program in the country. The park's four Indiana sites are in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 The nearly 200 companies located in the park network employ about 4,000 people. Purdue Research Park contact: Cynthia Sequin, 765-588-3340, 
casequin@prf.org </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/daniels,-ges-immelt-hold-public-discussion-on-innovation,-talent-.html
<Content> Daniels, GE's Immelt hold public discussion on innovation, talent 
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — GE Chairman and CEO Jeffrey Immelt and Purdue President Mitch Daniels sat down Oct. 3 to talk about how the company and the university can work together on global problems.
 The talk, titled "Meeting Our Challenges: A Conversation" was held from 2:30-3:30 p.m. to a nearly full Loeb Playhouse in Stewart Center.
 Among other things, Daniels and Immelt discussed how innovation and talent development affect GE's global business environment. GE has been the top employer of Purdue graduates over the most recent five-year period.
 Immelt also spent the day on campus talking to students, faculty and staff about the importance of continued cooperation between GE and Purdue, focused on the education of a global workforce and continued innovation through research.
 GE held a free technology showcase on Oct. 2 in Purdue Memorial Union, where students, faculty and the public were able to meet GE researchers who are working on breakthrough technology in areas including advanced manufacturing, intelligent software, sustainable power and the future of medicine.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/daniels,-ges-immelt-to-hold-public-discussion-on-innovation,-talent.html
<Content> Daniels, GE's Immelt to hold public discussion on innovation, talent
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — GE Chairman and CEO Jeffrey Immelt and Purdue President Mitch Daniels will sit down Oct. 3 to talk about how the company and the university can work together on global problems, and the public is invited to listen in.
 "Meeting Our Challenges: A Conversation" will be from 2:30-3:30 p.m. in Stewart Center's Loeb Playhouse. Among other things, Daniels and Immelt will discuss how innovation and talent development affect GE's global business environment.
 GE has been the top employer of Purdue graduates over the most recent five-year period. The program is free and open to the public, but tickets are required.
 Tickets are available at the Stewart Center or Elliott Hall of Music box offices or by calling 765-494-3933. The Stewart Center box office is open 10 a.m.
 to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Elliott box office is open 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. Immelt will spend the day on campus talking to students, faculty and staff about the importance of continued cooperation between GE and Purdue, focused on the education of a global workforce and continued innovation through research.
 GE will hold a free technology showcase from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Oct. 2 in Purdue Memorial Union, Room 118. Students, faculty and the public will be able to meet GE researchers who are working on breakthrough technology in areas including advanced manufacturing, intelligent software, sustainable power and the future of medicine.
 Sources: Catharine Adair Whitten, senior director, strategic events and special programs, University Development Office, 765-496-2160, 
cadair@purdue.edu Tony Denhart, GE regional manager for university relations, Tony.Denhart@ge.com </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/daniels-announces-changes-to-purdue-wage-proposal.html
<Content> Daniels announces changes to Purdue wage proposal
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Following the second meeting of the new President's Council on Budget and Affordability, Purdue University President Mitch Daniels announced changes in his original proposal for wage restraint as a contributor to holding tuition constant during the 2013-14 and 2014-15 academic years.
 Instead of a freeze on administrative and professional pay at levels over $50,000, all employees - clerical and service staff, professional, administrative, and faculty - will be eligible to participate in a 1 percent raise pool.
 As in the past, deans, department heads and unit supervisors will have the option to apportion the 1 percent pool on the basis of merit.
 An account previously budgeted to deal with cases of exceptional faculty performance and retention will be folded into the pool of funds available for faculty raises.
 The final decision, while responding to concerns expressed by faculty and other members of the university community, results in somewhat greater savings than the initial proposal, about $7 million versus $5 million over the two years of the tuition freeze.
 "Through the wealth of constructive feedback we received directly and through the faculty leaders on our new President's Council on Budget and Affordability, I'm convinced we have reached a far better outcome," Daniels said.
 "I'm excited not only by the way in which the council helped improve this decision, but also about the promise this episode offers for genuine, effective shared governance in making future difficult choices.
" Council member David Williams, vice chair of the University Senate, said, "I have been at Purdue for 40-plus years, and I believe we made history with the manner in which we reached this decision, for it has to be the first time Purdue faculty leaders had a say in how the university budget would be shaped.
 It truly is an example of shared governance." Patricia Hart, vice-chair-elect of the University Senate, added, "This solution represents the unanimous belief of the new President's Council that pre-eminence depends upon the valuable contributions of every member of our Purdue family.
" Daniels thanked all those who contacted him directly, in employee forums or through council members with their reactions and suggestions.
 "As one would expect, a wide variety of faculty and staff opinions were expressed or reported," he said. "The council had a great discussion about equity across employee categories and how to signal to staff the high value we all put on their work.
 I was impressed by the strong faculty sentiment that they not be treated differently, but share at least equally in the cause of student affordability.
" Mary Wirth, a council member and the W. Brooks Fortune Distinguished Professor of Analytical Chemistry, thanked all faculty and staff for their critical input.
 "People would be pleased to know that we are a group that explains diverse campus viewpoints to one another in a congenial way," Wirth said.
 "I'm confident that the outcome will not only make Purdue more affordable to students, but we will also become even better in research and education.
" Many administrators and faculty have indicated an interest in foregoing eligibility for their next raise or making a one-time contribution to the Student Affordability and Accessibility Fund, the pool of savings that must be assembled to replace what would have been delivered by Purdue's 37th and 38th consecutive tuition increases.
 Those inclined to forego eligibility for their next raise or make a one-time contribution will be enabled to do so by a simple, e-mail-based mechanism between now and May 3.
 Details will be communicated to employees at the end of this week. Members of the President's Council on Budget and Affordability, are: J.
 Paul Robinson, chair of the University Senate; Vic Lechtenberg, special assistant to the president; Richard Johnson-Sheehan, chair of the University Resources Policy Committee; Larry DeBoer, chair of the Budget Interpretation, Evaluation and Review Committee; Jeff Roberts, dean of the College of Science; and Williams, Hart and Wirth.
 Daniels said, "Maybe we at Purdue can prove that 'shared governance' not only can be made genuine in practice, but also can be made real without sacrificing the speed or the efficiency that the coming tough environment will require of successful universities.
" Media contact: Chris Sigurdson, assistant vice president for external relations, 765-496-2644, sig@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/daniels-taking-purdues-message-to-national-stage.html
<Content> Daniels taking Purdue's message to national stage
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue President Mitch Daniels has had a calendar full of media and speaking engagements in the community and state to address some of the major questions facing higher education and Purdue's response.
 Now he is taking the university's message to a national audience. In addition to one-on-one interviews with national publications such as The Wall Street Journal and New York Times, the upcoming events on his schedule include:
 * Higher Education Innovation Summit, National Press Club, Washington, D.C. The event is sponsored by The Council on Competiveness and Northeastern University with an audience that includes media as well as more than 100 policymakers and education thought leaders.
 The summit focuses on recent survey research of business leaders and the general public on the skills, competencies and credentials needed to compete in a global economy and the innovations needed in higher education to build a workforce for the future.
 * Daniels will host Indiana's congressional delegation and their top staffs at an event on Capitol Hill to encourage them to engage in Purdue's efforts, especially supporting the university's research agenda and securing significant federal grants.
 * Daniels will be featured at the Bloomberg Newsmaker Luncheon, hosted by prominent commentator Al Hunt, and will appear on Bloomberg television to discuss the importance of technology transfer and efforts Purdue has put in place to speed innovations to market.
 Bloomberg TV reaches 310,000,000 households around the world. * The American Dream 2.0 coalition will host a national media teleconference with Daniels to discuss trends and transitions in higher education and major new initiatives at Purdue.
 The coalition is supported by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. * Business Roundtable meeting with Secretary of Education Arne Duncan and America's Fortune 100 CEOs in Washington, D.C.
 Daniels will participate in a discussion centering on actionable steps the business community can take to create a greater sense of urgency to improve education results and contribute to building a stronger U.S.
 workforce. The Business Roundtable is a membership organization of CEOs from America's top 100 corporations as defined by revenues.
 * Daniels will be a featured panelist at the Time Summit on Higher Education, co-sponsored by Time magazine, the Carnegie Corporation, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation.
 The summit will focus on the American university as a research laboratory for the nation in science, technology, engineering, math, the social sciences and humanities.
 Daniels' co-panelists will Condoleezza Rice, Norm Augustine and presidential science and technology adviser John Holdren, with Fareed Sakaria as moderator.
 * Daniels will return to Washington, D.C., to speak to the national board of directors of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, focusing on entitlement and tax reform and the need for government investment in fundamental scientific research.
 * In October, Daniels will be at the Council on Competitiveness National Competitiveness Forum as part of a panel discussing the future of higher education.
 That same month he will give a distinguished lecture at the 2013 National Academy of Engineering Annual Meeting in Washington, D.C.
 He will discuss the commitment of the university and state of Indiana to expanding the scope of engineering at Purdue. He'll again travel to New York City to address the NBC Education Nation Summit.
 * Daniels also will present the opening address in November to the annual meeting of the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities, a gathering of presidents and top leaders from most of the nation's pre-eminent universities and Purdue's peer institutions.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/daniels-to-grads-world-may-be-uncertain-but-boilermakers-shouldnt-be.html
<Content> Daniels to grads: World may be uncertain but Boilermakers shouldn't be
 A new graduate expresses her excitement after receiving her Purdue University degree on Saturday (May 11). About 6,375 students were candidates for degrees at the West Lafayette campus this spring.
 Ceremonies were conducted in Elliott Hall of Music. (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - In a world of uncertainty with difficult global challenges ahead and no shortage of pessimists, Purdue President Mitch Daniels on Friday (May 10) sent the university's newest alumni out with one certainty: Boilermakers have and will continue to make a difference.
 Daniels spoke of the Boilermaker qualities, such as leadership, imagination and ingenuity that will help move the world forward.
 Purdue's spring commencement, with five ceremonies between Friday and Sunday (May 12) in Elliott Hall of Music on campus, marked Daniels' first as president.
 "In a few minutes, you will own for life one of the proudest emblems of achievement anywhere on the planet, a diploma from Purdue University.
 You will validate its worth as you move through lives of personal success and satisfaction. But you will fully honor it only as you invent, or start up, or build, or teach, or lead others in ways that alter and thereby continue the world's upward path.
" While acknowledging today's graduates face realities such as an inherited national debt, personal loans for the education they have received and a tough economy, Daniels expressed optimism that they will succeed.
 He also pointed out past instances where sages and sophisticated models predicted doom. "But they were wrong," he said, "because they fell into the oldest of traps, the fallacy of extrapolation.
 They failed to imagine that human ingenuity, first and foremost scientific and technological ingenuity, creates enormous and often sudden discontinuities that demolish the old forecasts and reset in fundamental ways the path of mankind's progress.
 The steam engine, the automobile, the Green Revolution, the silicon chip... No matter how often history repeats, the doomsayers never see the next one coming.
 "And they fail to account for one more thing: great leadership, the kind that can bring to bear the power of reason, and the lessons of history, and the skills of persuasion, to change minds and hearts and, therefore, both private action and public policies.
 "That's what Boilermakers do. They imagine, conceive, devise and finally engineer the breakthroughs that create the resets and the discontinuities.
" To illustrate, Daniels spoke of the countless lives saved from starvation by Purdue's two World Food Prize winners, Philip Nelson and Gebisa Ejita, and of Ward Cunningham's inventions that enabled a new mode of collaboration and gave the world a new word: "wiki.
" He noted that Purdue innovations every year create new jobs, wealth and life opportunities for innumerable others. "There's something else Boilermakers do," Daniels said.
 "Armed with a rounded education, rich in the liberal arts, they go into the world prepared to lead and to teach in a time of unprecedented complexity.
 Engineers and scientists who can distill, demystify and communicate complex questions to their fellow citizens; liberal arts graduates who absorbed enough of the transformative science of the day to teach it to our children or help shape the sound choices and tradeoffs that a free society must make together.
 "I make no pretense to special foresight, and I don't claim to know with certainty that humankind will again overcome the very real threats it faces.
 But I know this: In this audience, and in the graduating classes that preceded and will follow you, are people who will make huge differences, quite possibly the kind that reset all the forecasts and send the pessimists back to their gloomy little corners.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/deactivated-student-organizations-can-regain-status.html
<Content> Deactivated student organizations can regain status
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University's Student Activities and Organizations Office announced the list of organizations and clubs whose records have become outdated.
 Beginning this fall, organizations were required to register on BoilerLink and attend the required Student Organizations Development Workshops by Sept 16.
 Organizations that failed to meet these requirements are being deactivated. Loss of privileges due to deactivation include an inability to hold events, schedule rooms on campus, apply for grants and funding, lack of access to organization funds in the business office of Student Organizations, a loss of access for encumbrances, loss of bus rental privileges, and the ineligibility for awards and recognitions.
 Deactivated organizations will have an opportunity to regain activation on Feb. 3 by registering and completing required workshops.
 Presidents and treasurers of these organizations can begin attending the required workshops in November. Officers of these organizations who have questions about their status and completing the reactivation requirements can contact Student Activities and Organizations in Schleman Hall, Room 250, by calling 765-494-1231 or emailing 
sao@purdue.edu. Purdue Student Leadership Council for the Engineering Research Center for Structured-Organic Particulate Systems 
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/deductible-will-be-waived-on-all-preventive-prescription-drugs-for-2014.html
<Content> Deductible will be waived on all preventive prescription drugs for 2014
 Human Resources has announced that all three 2014 Purdue medical plans will waive the deductible on brand-name preventive prescription drugs.
 Originally, the deductible for these drugs was going to be waived only on the Purdue Health Plan. "The change will simplify coverage and encourage employees to follow the preventive medication recommendations of their physician," says Eva Nodine, director of benefits in Human Resources.
 See the chart below for details about the employee's cost for each preventive drug category. Employees will still pay less by using a generic preventive drug because prescriptions in this category are provided at no cost to the employee on all three 2014 medical plans.
 In addition, the "member pays the difference" rule still applies. Under this rule, if a generic is available, but the employee uses a brand-name drug instead, the employee will pay the cost difference between the brand-name drug and the generic, in addition to the coinsurance listed in the chart.
 The employee's portion of a preventive drug's cost, including any "member pays the difference" amount, does not count toward meeting the employee's overall medical plan deductible, but will count toward meeting the employee's out-of-pocket maximum.
 The Express Scripts website at www.express-scripts.com/purdue reflects the deductible change and should give an accurate estimate of the employee's cost for a specific drug.
 Anyone who has already enrolled for 2014 and wishes to make a change may do so through EBenefits by the 6 p.m. (ET) Nov. 15 end of open enrollment.
 For more information about preventive drug coverage, contact the Human Resources Service Center at hr@purdue.edu, 49-42222 or HR Help at 
www.purdue.edu/hrhelp. Benefits open enrollment for 2014 runs through 6 p.m. (ET) Nov. 15. For benefits and enrollment information, go to 
www.purdue.edu/benefits/enroll.html.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/deeply-rooted-dance-theatre-to-debut-generations-2013-oct.-30-at-purdue.html
<Content> Deeply Rooted Dance Theatre to debut 'Generations 2013' Oct. 30 at Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Deeply Rooted Dance Theater will kick off "Generations 2013," a five-year multigenerational repertory project, Oct.
 30 at Purdue University's Loeb Playhouse. The performance is sponsored by the Purdue University Black Cultural Center. Tickets are $10 and are available at the Elliott Hall and Stewart Center box offices at 765-494-3933 or 800-914-SHOW.
 "Deeply Rooted Dance Theater (DRDT) is Chicago's premier contemporary dance theater and is steeped in the African-American aesthetic," said BCC director Renee Thomas.
 "The company performs the works of renowned choreographers and tours nationally and internationally. 'Generations' features classic and new works by emerging, established and legendary choreographers.
 "It will highlight the company's unique style and influence on contemporary dance, inspired by the African Diaspora. 'Generations' underscores the company's impact on dance in Chicago and abroad.
 These artists include emerging choreographers discovering their voices; established choreographers who have gained recognition and acclaim for their work with national and international dance companies; and legendary choreographers who have created a body of groundbreaking work.
" The program features the world premiere of "Hadiya," by emerging choreographer Nicole Clarke-Springer and repertory by established choreographers, including the DRDT premiere of "Conversations," by Jeff; "Bach'd," by DRDT associate artistic director and co-founder Gary Abbott; and "Ferrotype," by Jeff and Abbott.
 Following the Purdue performance, they will perform the piece on Nov. 1 at the Harris Theatre in Chicago's Millennium Park. In addition to the Oct.
 30 show, DRDT members will present a master dance class that will be open to the public. The class will be at 6 p.m. Oct. 29 in the Córdova Recreational Sports Center Feature Gym.
 Source: Renee Thomas, 765-494-3091, rathomas@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/deeply-rooted-dance-theatre-to-debut-generations-2013-oct.-30-at-purdue.html
<Content> Deeply Rooted Dance Theatre to debut 'Generations 2013' Oct. 30 at Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Deeply Rooted Dance Theater will kick off "Generations 2013," a five-year multigenerational repertory project, Oct.
 30 at Purdue University's Loeb Playhouse. The performance is sponsored by the Purdue University Black Cultural Center. Tickets are $10 and are available at the Elliott Hall and Stewart Center box offices at 765-494-3933 or 800-914-SHOW.
 "Deeply Rooted Dance Theater (DRDT) is Chicago's premier contemporary dance theater and is steeped in the African-American aesthetic," said BCC director Renee Thomas.
 "The company performs the works of renowned choreographers and tours nationally and internationally. 'Generations' features classic and new works by emerging, established and legendary choreographers.
 "It will highlight the company's unique style and influence on contemporary dance, inspired by the African Diaspora. 'Generations' underscores the company's impact on dance in Chicago and abroad.
 These artists include emerging choreographers discovering their voices; established choreographers who have gained recognition and acclaim for their work with national and international dance companies; and legendary choreographers who have created a body of groundbreaking work.
" The program features the world premiere of "Hadiya," by emerging choreographer Nicole Clarke-Springer and repertory by established choreographers, including the DRDT premiere of "Conversations," by Jeff; "Bach'd," by DRDT associate artistic director and co-founder Gary Abbott; and "Ferrotype," by Jeff and Abbott.
 Following the Purdue performance, they will perform the piece on Nov. 1 at the Harris Theatre in Chicago's Millennium Park. In addition to the Oct.
 30 show, DRDT members will present a master dance class that will be open to the public. The class will be at 6 p.m. Oct. 29 in the Córdova Recreational Sports Center Feature Gym.
 Source: Renee Thomas, 765-494-3091, rathomas@purdue.edu</Content>

GENERATOR
<Content> Purdue Agriculture 
 Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Purdue Agriculture Purdue University’s College of Agriculture is one of the world’s leading colleges of agricultural, food, life, and natural resource sciences.
 As a land-grant institution, we are committed to preparing our students to make a difference, wherever their careers take them; stretching the frontiers of science to find solutions to some of our most pressing global challenges; and, through Purdue Extension and engagement programs, helping the people of Indiana, the nation and the world improve their lives and livelihoods.
 Purdue Agriculture, 615 West State Street, West Lafayette, IN 47907-2053 USA, (765) 494-8392 © 2012 Purdue University | An equal access, equal opportunity university.
 If you have trouble accessing this page because of a disability, please contact the Webmaster at AgWeb@purdue.edu. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/detroit-theme-of-black-cultural-centers-fall-series.html
<Content> Detroit theme of Black Cultural Center's fall series
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The city of Detroit inspires the theme of the Fall Cultural Series at the Purdue University Black Cultural Center
. Black Detroit: The History, Movement & Music That Changed a Nation will feature a multimedia theatrical performance, speakers, music, an information fair and also a research tour.
 "Detroit provides an incredible narrative of the African-American experience in our nation. Throughout the semester we focus on three core components: the Abolitionist Movement and the Underground Railroad, the Great Migration and the birth of the middle class, and the rebirth of the city of Detroit," said Renee Thomas, director of the Purdue Black Cultural Arts Center.
 "Detroit was a significant station on the Underground Railroad that helped many enslaved individuals reach freedom. More than 100,000 African-Americans flocked to Detroit during the Great Migration (1910-1930) to escape the social inequalities in the South and to find better opportunities in the industrial city.
 Detroit has been hit hard by the current economic downturn; however, the arts are playing a vital role in helping the city rise again.
" * Aug. 23. 4-6 p.m. Black Cultural Center, 1100 Third St. 16th annual Boilerfest New Student Orientation. The casual outdoor program introduces new students to the Black Cultural Center, various student organizations and support services.
 The event will feature music, dance and culinary creations connected to Detroit. * Sept. 13. 7 p.m. Fowler Hall in Stewart Center.
 "The Missing Project: Pieces of the D Featuring jessica Care moore." A multimedia theatrical performance featuring the narrative and stories of poet jessica Care moore, the live graffiti of Antonio Agee (aka Shades) and a historical soundtrack with a live DJ that pays tribute to the record label that helped launch Detroit's international techno movement Underground Resistance.
 "The Missing Project connects the recent recession and the revolutionary movements of an industrial city and the current state of art in Detroit and across the globe," Thomas said.
 * Sept. 29. Immediately following Marshall-Purdue football game. Annual BCC Friends and Family Day. Participants will map the lives of African-Americans who moved from agricultural southern states to industrial northern states.
 The event will feature migration stories, children's activities and food. "Ford Motor Co. employed southern migrants and helped give birth to the black middle class by paying a living wage that enabled workers to improve their quality of life," Thomas said.
 * Oct. 5-9. BCC Research Tour in Detroit and Ontario. Students will learn about the Underground Railroad and examine Detroit as a Midwest Mecca for African-Americans during the Great Migration.
 The city's struggles following the turbulent 1960s and its slow rebirth in the 21st century also will be explored, along with its artistic and musical legacy.
 * Oct. 15-29. Stewart Center, under the mural. "The Race Experience." The race experience kiosk offers a diversity experience where people can see themselves in a different skin.
 You can change your race to black, white, Asian, Hispanic, Middle Eastern and Indian. "The exhibit will generate a discussion of race and why we understand the beliefs, biases and misconceptions about it," Thomas said.
 * Oct. 18-19. 7 p.m. Black Cultural Center, 1100 Third St. BCC Coffee House featuring the Performing Arts Ensembles. * Oct. 20. 8 p.m.
 Loeb Playhouse in Stewart Center. An evening with blues guitarist and singer Buddy Guy. The guitarist who built the bridge between blues and rock 'n' roll will perform.
 The concert is in partnership with Purdue Convocations. Tickets range in price from $35-$65 and are available at the Loeb box office.
 * Oct. 25-28. Purdue's BCC will co-host the National Association for Black Culture Centers Conference. The theme is "Culture, Concerns and Contradictions: Being Black in the Age of Obama.
" Attendees will learn about relevant issues related to black and multicultural centers and the field of black studies. For registration information, visit 
http:www.conf.purdue.edu/ABCC * Oct. 26. 8 p.m. Fowler Hall in Stewart Center. Indiana University Soul Revue. The group performs R&B, soul, funk and contemporary urban black popular music.
 The concert will feature a musical journey of the sounds of Motown. * Nov. 5. 7 p.m. Stewart Center, Room 218. "Kimberly Simmons: Detroit and the Underground Railroad.
" Simmons is the founder and executive director of the Quarlls Watkins Heritage Project, an organization dedicated to the public enlightenment of the Underground Railroad.
 She is a descendent from a Virginia family that traces its American heritage over 400 years. * Nov. 30. 7 p.m. Loeb Playhouse in Stewart Center.
 Cultural Arts Festival. The festival is a culmination of the BCC's exploration of the birth, death and rebirth of black Detroit, featuring the BCC Performing Arts Ensembles.
 Admission: General public, $7; Purdue students, $5.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/device-speeds-concentration-step-in-food-pathogen-detection.html
<Content> Device speeds concentration step in food-pathogen detection
 Purdue University doctoral students, from left, Xuan Li and Seockmo Ku operate a new system that concentrates foodborne salmonella and other pathogens faster than conventional methods, representing a potential new tool for speedier detection.
 The research is led by Michael Ladisch, center, a distinguished professor of agricultural and biological engineering. (Purdue University photo/Steven Yang) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Researchers have developed a system that concentrates foodborne salmonella and other pathogens faster than conventional methods by using hollow thread-like fibers that filter out the cells, representing a potential new tool for speedier detection.
 The machine, called a continuous cell concentration device, could make it possible to routinely analyze food or water samples to screen for pathogens within a single work shift at food processing plants.
 "This approach begins to address the critical need for the food industry for detecting food pathogens within six hours or less," said 
Michael Ladisch, a distinguished professor of agricultural and biological engineering at Purdue University. "Ideally, you want to detect foodborne pathogens in one work shift, from start to finish, which means extracting the sample, concentrating the cells and detection.
" A report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) indicates a lack of recent progress in reducing foodborne infections and highlights the need for improved prevention.
 Although many foodborne illnesses have declined in the past 15 years, the number of laboratory-confirmed salmonella cases did not change significantly in 2012 compared with 2006 to 2008.
 The first step in detecting foodborne pathogens is concentrating the number of cells in test samples. The new system enables researchers to carry out the concentration step within one hour, compared to a day for the standard method now in commercial use, said Ladisch, also a professor of biomedical engineering and director of Purdue's Laboratory of Renewable Resources Engineering (LORRE)
 Findings are detailed in a research paper to appear in November in the journal Applied and Environmental Microbiology. The paper was authored by doctoral student Xuan Li; LORRE research scientist Eduardo Ximenes; postdoctoral research associate Mary Anne Roshni Amalaradjou; undergraduate student Hunter B.
 Vibbert; senior research engineer Kirk Foster; engineering resources manager Jim Jones; microbiologist Xingya Liu; Arun K. Bhunia, a professor of food microbiology; and Ladisch.
 Findings showed the system was able to concentrate inoculated salmonella by 500 to 1,000 times the original concentration in test samples.
 This level of concentration is required for accurate detection. Another finding showed the system recovered 70 percent of the living pathogen cells in samples, Ladisch said.
 "This is important because if you filter microorganisms and kill them in the process that's self-defeating," he said. "The goal is to find out how many living microorganisms are present.
" The machine was used to concentrate cells in a sample of chicken meat. The sample is first broken down into the consistency of a milkshake and chemically pretreated to prevent the filtering membranes from clogging.
 The fluid is then passed through 12 hollow-fiber filters about 300 microns in diameter that are contained in a tube about the size of a cocktail straw.
 The filtering process continues until pathogens if present are concentrated enough to be detected. The technique, developed by researchers from Purdue's colleges of Engineering and Agriculture, could be performed during food processing or vegetable washing before the products are shipped.
 The U.S. Department of Agriculture will test the system, which is not yet ready for commercialization. One feature that could make the machine practical for commercial application is that it can be quickly cleaned between uses.
 The tubes are flushed with sodium hydroxide and alcohol. The research is funded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Purdue's Agricultural Research Programs and Center for Food Safety Engineering, and the Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering.
 Note to Journalists: An electronic copy of the research paper is available from Emil Venere, 765-494-4709, venere@purdue.edu Rapid Sample Processing for Detection of Food-Borne Pathogens via Cross-Flow Micro&#64257;ltration
 Xuan Li,a,b Eduardo Ximenes,a,b Mary Anne Roshni Amalaradjou,d Hunter B. Vibbert,a,e* Kirk Foster,c Jim Jones,c Xingya Liu,a,b, Arun K.
 Bhunia,d,f Michael R. Ladisch a,b,c Laboratory of Renewable Resources Engineering,a Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering,b Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering,c Department of Food Science,d Department of Chemistry,e Department of Comparative Pathobiology,f Purdue University
 This paper reports an approach to enable rapid concentration and recovery of bacterial cells from aqueous chicken homogenates as a preanalytical step of detection.
 This approach includes biochemical pretreatment and pre&#64257;ltration of food samples and development of an automated cell concentration instrument based on cross-&#64258;ow micro&#64257;ltration.
 A polysulfone hollow-&#64257;ber membrane module having a nominal pore size of 0.2 &#1113088;m constitutes the core of the cell concentration instrument.
 The aqueous chicken homogenate samples were circulated within the cross-&#64258;ow system achieving 500- to 1,000-fold concentration of inoculated Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis and naturally occurring microbiota with 70% recovery of viable cells as determined by plate counting and quantitative PCR (qPCR) within 35 to 45 min.
 These steps enabled 10 CFU/ml microorganisms in chicken homogenates or 102 CFU/g chicken to be quanti&#64257;ed. Cleaning and sterilizing the instrument and membrane module by stepwise hydraulic and chemical cleaning (sodium hydroxide and ethanol) enabled reuse of the membrane 15 times before replacement.
 This approach begins to address the critical need for the food industry for detecting food pathogens within 6 h or less. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/director-of-purdue-university-center-for-cancer-research-to-speak-at-next-science-on-tap.html
<Content> Director of Purdue University Center for Cancer Research to speak at next Science on Tap
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - More than 12 million people will be diagnosed with cancer this year, confronting a brutal battle filled with treatment methods and side effects that can make the struggle even more difficult.
 The Purdue University Center for Cancer Research is working to address the cancer question and lead the way in early detection, prevention and drug discovery through basic research.
 To highlight those efforts, Timothy L. Ratliff, the Robert Wallace Miller Director of the Purdue University Center for Cancer Research
, will speak at 6 p.m. Sept. 26 as part of the Science on Tap informal lecture series. The event, which is free and open to those 21 and older, is in the upstairs of the Lafayette Brewing Company, 622 Main St.
, Lafayette. In the talk, sponsored by the Purdue University Center for Cancer Research and Discovery Park, Ratliff will discuss the many advances in cancer research led by the Purdue center and its collaborators as well as answer questions about cancer.
 "Our faculty members have developed new treatments for ovarian, endometrial, lung, kidney and colon cancers that now are being tested in the clinic," Ratliff said.
 "Purdue scientists also are developing new markers that provide prognostic information on cancer aggressiveness and cancer stage and new ways to image cancer that enable surgeons to more efficiently remove cancer during surgery.
 Our faculty members are working hard to defeat this disease." Ratliff joined Philip Low, the Ralph C. Corley Distinguished Professor of Chemistry, at last week's President's Forum to discuss the university's investment in drug discovery and development.
 Ratliff, Low and directors of other Purdue centers with research focused on the disease targets will meet regularly to share discoveries and ensure a unified, efficient progression of the research.
 Ratliff said Purdue has been at the forefront of progress in the discovery of new cancer drugs, diagnostic tools and approaches for treatment.
 Purdue also has strengths in experimental therapeutics, cell growth and differentiation, and structural biology. Advances in nanomedicine and proteomics have opened the door to new concepts in early cancer detection and treatment.
 The Purdue University Center for Cancer Research is one of seven National Cancer Institute-designated basic-research facilities in the United States.
 Its mission is to discover how cancers develop, progress and respond to treatment and to advance new medicines, diagnostic tools and treatment devices.
 The center currently has 14 drugs in clinical trials. Ratliff is nationally recognized for his achievements in urologic research and has made it a priority to foster multidisciplinary collaboration that builds on Purdue's strengths in engineering and science and the resources offered by Discovery Park.
 Before coming to Purdue to lead the cancer center in 2007, Ratliff served as the Andersen-Hebbeln Professor of Prostate Cancer Research at the University of Iowa College of Medicine for 10 years.
 He also spent six years there as research vice chair for its Department of Urology. Ratliff is a member of the American Urological Association and is founder of the Society for Basic Urologic Research.
 His research has focused on immunotherapy studies using prostate and bladder cancer models to address questions regarding activation of antitumor responses, characterization of antitumor effector mechanisms and the regulation of antitumor immunity.
 He received his bachelor's degree in biology and chemistry from the University of Texas, Arlington. He received his master's degree in biology at Texas A&M, Commerce, and his doctorate in microbiology at the University of Arkansas.
 Prior to joining the faculty of the University of Iowa, he was a faculty member of Washington University School of Medicine. Science on Tap, now led by Purdue graduate students Nelda Vazquez and Becca Scott, provides Purdue faculty and collaborating researchers the opportunity to share research activities in an informal setting with presentations that are designed to appeal to a more general audience.
 Attendance at the monthly event has averaged 80 during the program's first two years. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/discovery-of-gene-function-may-help-prevent-kidney-stones.html
<Content> Discovery of gene function may help prevent kidney stones
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The discovery of a gene's function in E. coli and other bacteria might lead to a probiotic to prevent the most common type of kidney stone, according to a Purdue University study.
 Human cells can't metabolize oxalate, an acidic chemical found in nearly all plants we eat, so any oxalate we absorb from food must be excreted from the body.
 Calcium-oxalate urinary stones can form when oxalate reaches a high concentration in the kidneys. About 80 percent of kidney stones are composed of insoluble calcium oxalate.
 T. Joseph Kappock, assistant professor of biochemistry, and his research team made the discovery during a study of genes in Acetobacter aceti, a harmless bacterium that is typically used to convert wine to vinegar.
 Acetobacter aceti, which normally lives on plant tissue, thrives in acidic conditions that easily kill most other bacteria, Kappock said.
 The researchers were searching for other acids in addition to acetic acid, the acid present in vinegar, that the bacterium can metabolize.
 "We were very excited when we realized E. coli has the same genetic setup as Acetobacter aceti," said Kappock, whose findings were published in the journal 
PLOS ONE. Kappock and doctoral students Elwood A. Mullins and Kelly L. Sullivan found that Acetobacter aceti and E. coli each contain an enzyme with a previously unknown function, called YfdE in E.
 coli. DNA sequencing had identified related genes in each bacterium, but provided little insight about its function. "When we look at a bacterial genome by DNA sequencing, we can't tell what many of the proteins in the organism do," Kappock said.
 "I compare it to knowing that a vehicle has an internal combustion engine. You don't know if it's in an Indy car or a diesel truck.
 DNA sequencing tells us we have an internal combustion engine in this organism, but we don't know what it's for or what it can do.
" "A few bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract eat oxalate, and we think we know how those work," Kappock said. "But we don't know why so many others are killed by oxalate, even though they have genes that would seem to be able to protect them.
 Oxalate is a very hard nut to crack. It's a very stable molecule that is difficult to decompose. The enzymes that process it are pretty specialized and don't seem to connect to normal bacterial metabolic pathways in an obvious way.
" The researchers determined which chemicals are processed by the YfdE enzyme, following a hunch that it would use oxalate. Their results connected oxalate degradation to the core of bacterial metabolism.
 Assigning a function to YfdE may help identify beneficial bacteria that could serve as probiotic agents in the human gastrointestinal tract to reduce the risk of kidney stone formation.
 Kidney stones, which affect more than 5 percent of the U.S. population, can cause painful blockages of the urinary tract. "If we understand what bacteria need to degrade oxalate, then we might have a better idea how to identify strains that can do that, and thereby suppress the uptake of dietary oxalate" he said.
 "There are probably bacteria out there that have engineered themselves to do this for us." "Because we've figured out what the gene product does, we will be able to find it in any organism and can zero in on those that might be beneficial," he said.
 The researchers used X-ray crystallography to pinpoint the most important regions of the YfdE enzyme. Kappock said the information has other applications, as well.
 Scientists and engineers who are interested in mapping and reprogramming microbial metabolism now know what one more gene product does.
 Agricultural Research at Purdue, the National Science Foundation and the U.S. Department of Energy funded the research. Acetyl-CoA:Oxalate CoA-transferase 1 Function and X-ray Crystal Structure of Escherichia coli YfdE
 Many food plants accumulate oxalate, which humans absorb but do not metabolize, leading to the formation of urinary stones. The commensal bacterium Oxalobacter formigenes consumes oxalate by converting it to oxalyl-CoA, which is decarboxylated by oxalyl-CoA decarboxylase (OXC).
 OXC and the class III CoA-transferase formyl-CoA:oxalate CoA-transferase (FCOCT) are widespread among bacteria, including many that have no apparent ability to degrade or to resist external oxalate.
 The EvgA acid response regulator activates transcription of the Escherichia coli yfdXWUVE operon encoding YfdW (FCOCT), YfdU (OXC), and YfdE, a class III CoA-transferase that is &#126;30% identical to YfdW.
 YfdW and YfdU are necessary and sufficient for oxalate-induced protection against a subsequent acid challenge; neither of the other genes has a known function.
 We report the purification, in vitro characterization, 2.1- A crystal structure, and functional assignment of YfdE. YfdE and UctC, an orthologue from the obligate aerobe Acetobacter aceti, perform the reversible conversion of acetyl-CoA and oxalate to oxalyl-CoA and acetate.
 The annotation of YfdE as acetyl-CoA:oxalate CoA-transferase (ACOCT) expands the scope of metabolic pathways linked to oxalate catabolism and the oxalate-induced acid tolerance response.
 FCOCT and ACOCT active sites contain distinctive, conserved active site loops (the glycine-rich loop and the GNxH loop, respectively) that appear to encode substrate specificity.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/discovery-points-to-new-approach-to-fight-dengue-virus.html
<Content> Discovery points to new approach to fight dengue virus
 Purdue researchers Pavel Plevka (left), Ju Sheng and Xinzheng Zhang, stand near the Titan electron microscope in Purdue's Wayne T.
 and Mary T. Hockmeyer Hall of Structural Biology. In research led by Michael G. Rossmann, Hanley Distinguished Professor of Biological Sciences, the team has discovered that rising temperature induces key changes in the dengue virus when it enters its human host.
 The findings represent a new approach for designing vaccines against the aggressive mosquito-borne pathogen. (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Researchers have discovered that rising temperature induces key changes in the dengue virus when it enters its human host, and the findings represent a new approach for designing vaccines against the aggressive mosquito-borne pathogen.
 The researchers found that the dengue virus particles swell slightly and take on a bumpy appearance when heated to human body temperature, exposing "epitopes," or regions where antibodies could attach to neutralize the virus.
 The discovery is significant because it could help to explain why vaccines against dengue have been ineffective, said Michael G.
 Rossmann, Hanley Distinguished Professor of Biological Sciences at Purdue University. Scientists have been designing vaccines targeting the virus's smooth appearance found at the cooler temperatures of mosquitoes and ticks.
 "The bumpy form of the virus would be the form present in humans, so the optimal dengue virus vaccines should induce antibodies that preferentially recognize epitopes exposed in that form," Rossmann said.
 The findings are detailed in a research paper appearing online this week in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. The researchers used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to see the three-dimensional structure of the virus at temperatures ranging from 28-37 degrees Celsius (37 degrees Celsius is 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit, or human body temperature).
 Findings showed that the virus has a smooth appearance while at the cooler temperatures found in mosquito or tick vectors, but then it morphs into the bumpy form at warmer temperatures before fusing to the host cell and delivering its genetic material.
 "These findings were a big surprise," said Richard J. Kuhn, professor and head of Purdue's Department of Biological Sciences and director of the Bindley Bioscience Center.
 "No one expected to see the virus change its appearance as it moves from the mosquito to humans." The paper was co-authored by postdoctoral researcher Xinzheng Zhang; lab manager Ju Sheng; postdoctoral researcher Pavel Plevka; Kuhn; Michael S.
 Diamond, a researcher at Washington University School of Medicine; and Rossmann. Findings also could apply to related infections in the flavivirus family, which includes a number of dangerous insect-borne diseases such as West Nile, yellow fever, tick-borne encephalitis and Japanese encephalitis.
 Dengue (pronounced DEN-g&#275;) is a leading cause of serious illness and death among children in some Asian and Latin American countries, causing 50 million to 100 million infections per year.
 Globally, dengue has grown dramatically in recent decades, placing about half the world's population at risk of infection. The researchers determined that the bumpy form of the virus is more efficient at infecting mammalian cells.
 The team was able to measure the virus's infectivity using a laboratory procedure where cells are infected in a culture dish. The bumpy shape is an intermediate stage before the virus becomes unstable, releasing its genetic material.
 The virus is made of subunit molecules that separate when the virus particle expands into its bumpy form, revealing exposed membrane surfaces between the subunits where antibodies might bind.
 The work is funded by the National Institutes of Health and Purdue through university support for a structural biology electron microscope facility.
 Note to Journalists: A copy of the research paper is available from Emil Venere, 765-494-4709, venere@purdue.edu Xinzheng Zhanga
, Ju Shenga, Pavel Plevkaa, Richard J. Kuhna, Michael S. Diamondb, and Michael G. Rossmanna,1 b Departments of Medicine, Molecular Microbiology, Pathology & Immunology, Washington University School of Medicine 
 1 Corresponding Author: Michael G. Rossmann, Department of Biological Sciences, 240 S. Martin Jischke Drive, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907 USA; (765) 494-4911; E-mail: mr@purdue.edu 
 We report on a conformational transition of dengue virus when changing the temperature from that present in its mosquito vectors to that of its human host.
 Using cryo-electron microscopy, we show that although at room temperature the virus has a smooth surface, a diameter of &#126;500Å and little exposed membrane, at 37ºC the virions have a bumpy appearance with a diameter of &#126;550Å and some exposed membrane.
 The bumpy structure at 37ºC was found to be similar to the previously predicted structure of an intermediate between the smooth mature and fusogenic forms.
 As humans have a body temperature of 37ºC, the bumpy form of the virus would be the form present in humans. Thus, optimal dengue virus vaccines should induce antibodies that preferentially recognize epitopes exposed on the bumpy form of the virus.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/division-of-financial-aid-reminds-students-to-file-fafsa.html
<Content> Division of Financial Aid reminds students to file FAFSA
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - All current and newly admitted Purdue University students planning on attending Purdue in the fall of 2013 must file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by March 1 to receive priority consideration for federal, state and university-based financial aid.
 "Students may still file after March 1, but the amount of some types of financial aid is often limited," said David Reseigh, assistant director of outreach services at Purdue's Division of Financial Aid.
 "Students could miss out by waiting to file their FAFSA." Students and their families also can get free FAFSA filing help from financial aid experts at College Goal Sunday on Feb 24, starting at 2 p.m.
 Families in the Lafayette area can attend at Ivy Tech Community College, Ivy Hall, 3101 S. Creasy Lane. A complete list of the 30 participating sites around Indiana can be found at 
http://www.collegegoalsunday.org. A national list of College Goal Sunday events can be found at http://www.collegegoalsundayusa.org/
. "Dependent students age 23 and under should attend with their parent(s) or guardian(s) and bring the parents' 2012 income, asset and benefits information," Reseigh said.
 "Students who worked in 2012 should bring their own earnings information as well." Students 24 and older may attend alone and bring their own 2012 income, asset and benefits information.
 Families can print a helpful worksheet and learn more about filing the FAFSA at http://www.fafsa.gov. Purdue's Division of Financial Aid provides financial aid information to students and families through community outreach, via email and online at 
http://www.purdue.edu/dfa. Families can view Purdue-specific financial aid filing information at http://www.purdue.edu/dfa/howtoapply/checklist.php
 or by calling the Division of Financial Aid at 765-494-5050 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Eastern time Monday through Friday. Source: David Reseigh, 765-496-3919, 
dlreseigh@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/doktor-kaboom-returns-to-purdue-with-its-just-rocket-science.html
<Content> Doktor Kaboom! returns to Purdue with 'It's Just Rocket Science!'
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Doktor Kaboom! will perform at Purdue University's Loeb Playhouse at 3 p.m. Nov. 24. This performance is presented by 
Purdue Convocations. The performance also includes a free preshow activity for ticket holders at 2 p.m. This will include displays and crafts for Explore Space Day and will be in the Stewart Center West Lobby in association with the 
Indiana Space Grant Consortium. Doktor Kaboom! returns with an all-new show, "It's Just Rocket Science!" that explores the real problems associated with rocket science: centrifugal force, gravity, inertia, momentum and, yes, math.
 A spiky-haired German scientist and sometimes rapper, Doktor Kaboom! turns the stage into his own personal laboratory and the audience into his assistants.
 The boisterous brainchild of scientist/comedian David Epley, Doktor Kaboom! explores the unpredictable, entertaining possibilities of scientific exploration.
 This improvisational journey into scientific method and application is an experiment in fun that families won't want to miss. The show will last approximately one hour.
 Tickets are $15 for adults and $10 for children 18 and younger, Purdue students and Ivy Tech Lafayette students. Tickets are available at the Elliott Hall and Stewart Center box offices at 765-494-3933 or 800-914-SHOW.
 Initiated in 1902, Purdue Convocations was one of the first professional performing arts presenters in the United States. Each year, Convocations offers the region 20-30 performances of widely varying genres.
 Purdue Convocations aims to promote frequent exposure to and familiarity with human cultural expression in a multitude of forms and media.
 Note to Journalists: Publication-quality photos are available at http://www.convocations.org/press </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/drug-discovery,-development-firm-joins-purdue-research-park.html
<Content> Drug discovery, development firm joins Purdue Research Park
 INDIANAPOLIS - A firm that will carry out drug discovery and development work on medical conditions including cardiovascular disease, diabetes and central nervous system disorders has become a tenant in the Purdue Research Park.
 Sunnylife Pharma Inc. was founded by two former Merck & Co. Inc. scientists and an investor in 2012. Zhijian Lu, CEO, said the company will focus on discovering and developing drugs for conditions that its employees have expertise in.
 "We stand apart from other drug discovery firms because of our experience," Lu said. "We have several decades of combined experience in drug discovery and development, and our experts have marketed drug or clinical candidates in late clinical trials.
" Sunnylife Pharma Inc. carries out drug discovery research. Working closely with our partner in China, we undergo research in metabolic disorders, CNS diseases, cancer and other diseases that present a serious threat to the human health.
 Our approach is to focus on a small number of projects at any given time to deliver high quality preclinical candidates with a high probability of success in becoming a commercialized drug.
 The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country in four locations across Indiana.
 The parks are home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 Source: Zhijian Lu, zhijianhlu@yahoo.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/drug-may-reduce-chronic-pain-for-spinal-cord-injuries.html
<Content> Drug may reduce chronic pain for spinal cord injuries
 Purdue researcher Riyi Shi is leading work to study the role of a known neurotoxin in chronic pain for people who suffer from paralysis.
 A drug that has been shown to remove the toxin might be used to treat the pain. (Purdue University photo/Michel Schweinsberg) Download Photo
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Researchers have discovered that a known neurotoxin may cause chronic pain in people who suffer from paralysis, and a drug that has been shown to remove the toxin might be used to treat the pain.
 The toxin, called acrolein, is produced in the body after nerve cells are injured, triggering a cascade of biochemical events thought to worsen the injury's severity.
 The drug hydralazine, which has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for hypertension, has been shown to be effective in reducing acrolein levels in the body.
 New research shows hydralazine is effective in reducing chronic pain in laboratory animals and potentially in people who have suffered neurotrauma resulting in paralysis, said 
Riyi Shi (pronounced Ree Shee), a professor of neuroscience and biomedical engineering in Purdue's Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, and Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering.
 “Beyond paralysis, chronic neuropathic pain drastically impairs the quality of life for spinal cord injury victims. ” he said.
 “Pain can persist for decades post-injury, which could contribute to depression and suicide.” The research is a collaboration between Purdue and the Indiana University School of Medicine.
 New findings are detailed in a research paper appearing this month in the Journal of Neurochemistry. The paper was authored by Michael Due, a postdoctoral fellow at the IU School of Medicine; Purdue graduate students Jonghyuck Park, Lingxing Zheng and Michael Walls; IU graduate student Yohance M.
 Allette; Fletcher A. White, the V.K. Stoelting Chair of Anesthesia Professor of Pharmacology and Toxicology at IU School of Medicine; and Shi.
 Researchers studied the role acrolein plays in hypersensitivity to pain in laboratory rats and the effectiveness of hydralazine in reducing the pain.
 “It turns out that acrolein is a very important compound behind neuropathic pain,” Shi said. “In a chronic pain situation, a stimulus that ordinarily might feel pleasant, even just a little touch, could cause pain.
” Findings show the quantity of acrolein increases after a spinal cord injury and may activate pain receptors - protein channels called TRPA1 - contained in pain-sensory nerve fibers of dorsal root ganglia located alongside the spine.
 Following spinal cord injury, the dorsal root ganglia could be affected biochemically or directly through physical trauma. "The amplification of pain can be exacerbated in spinal cord injury due to acrolein’s direct activation of pain receptors, as well as acrolein-induced inflammation that further intensifies pain sensation," Shi said.
 "Sometimes you have pain even without stimulation. You can have excruciating pain just sitting there." Findings also indicate that injury causes a three-fold increase in the number of TRPA1 channels, which could further amplify pain caused by acrolein.
 The research showed hydralazine significantly reduces pain in experiments that measure a rat's reaction to stimulation. “Even if we delay administration of hydralazine we can still reduce the pain, meaning not only acute but chronic pain might be reduced by acrolein-scavenging treatment,” Shi said.
 “This could be promising news for millions of spinal cord injury victims who may suffer from debilitating pain.” The research is funded by the National Institutes of Health, Indiana Department of Health and the Indiana CTSI Collaboration in Biomedical Translational Research.
 Note to Journalists: An electronic copy of the research paper is available from Emil Venere, 765-494-4709, venere@purdue.edu Acrolein involvement in sensory and behavioral hypersensitivity following spinal cord injury in the ra
t Michael R. Due1, Jonghyuck Park3, Lingxing Zheng3, Michael Walls3, Yohance M. Allette2, Fletcher A. White1, 2, and Riyi Shi1,3 
 3 Department of Basic Medical Sciences, School of Veterinary Medicine, and Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, Purdue University
 Growing evidence suggests that oxidative stress, as associated with spinal cord injury (SCI), may play a critical role in both neuroinflammation and neuropathic pain conditions.
 The production of the endogenous aldehyde acrolein, following lipid peroxidation during the inflammatory response, may contribute to peripheral sensitization and hyperreflexia following SCI via the TRPA1-dependent mechanism.
 Here we report that there are enhanced levels of acrolein and increased neuronal sensitivity to the aldehyde for at least 14 days after SCI.
 Concurrent with injury-induced increases in acrolein concentration, is an increased expression of TRPA1 in the lumbar (L3-L6) sensory ganglia.
 As proof of the potential pronociceptive role for acrolein, intrathecal injections of acrolein revealed enhanced sensitivity to both tactile and thermal stimuli for up to 10 days, supporting the compound’s pro-nociceptive functionality.
 Treatment of SCI animals with the acrolein scavenger, hydralazine, produced moderate improvement in tactile responses as well as robust changes in thermal sensitivity for up to 49 days.
 Taken together, these data suggests that acrolein directly modulates SCI-associated pain behavior, making it a novel vietherapeutic target for preclinical and clinical SCI as an analgesic.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/dry-weather,-excessive-heat-still-choking-indiana-corn.html
<Content> Dry weather, excessive heat still choking Indiana corn
 A field of corn on a central Indiana farm shows signs of stress from a combination of little rain and excessive heat. (Purdue Agricultural Communication photo/Jennifer Stewart) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Much of Indiana's once thriving corn crop continues to deteriorate as hot, dry conditions continue their stranglehold on much of the state, a Purdue Extension corn specialist says.
 The combination of dryness and extreme heat during critical weeks for corn kernel weight development is further cutting into yield potential.
 "Plain and simple, the 'frosting is off the cake' for many cornfields around Indiana as dry and often excessively hot conditions continue through the end of this 2013 grain-filling period," Bob Nielsen said.
 In fact, for some fields, the ‘cake' is disappearing too." The U.S. Department of Agriculture's Drought Monitor update of Sept.
 5 showed that about one-third of Indiana was abnormally dry - the lowest level of dryness - while a small swath of the northwestern part of the state fell into moderate drought.
 On Monday (Sept. 9), the U.S. Department of Agriculture reported that an estimated 67 percent of Indiana's corn crop is at the dent stage of kernel development.
 That leaves nearly one-third of the crop in dough stage, meaning 50 percent of its yield potential is yet to be determined. According to Nielsen, there is a common misconception that growers don't have to worry about yield potential when corn has hit dent.
 "Once corn reaches dent stage, many folks can be heard confidently stating that there is no reason to worry about further crop stresses because 'the crop is made,'" he said.
 "Actually, by the time a crop reaches full dent, only about 60 percent of the crop has been 'made' and there is still 40 percent of the potential yield on the table yet to be determined.
" In fact, corn plants can still fall victim to sudden and complete death as late as two weeks before physiological maturity if conditions are bad enough, Nielsen said.
 Whole plant death can translate to yield losses as high as 12 percent. Growers recognize physiological maturity when they can see a thin, black layer at the tips of kernels, which prevents further photosynthate into the grain.
 Some of Indiana's most stressed corn plants can be found in soils that have low water-holding capacity or significant soil compaction.
 Plants in those fields have shown stress in the form of leaf rolling, lower leaf death or whole plant death. "The effects of inadequate rainfall throughout much of the grain-filling period in Indiana and elsewhere have, at times, been amplified by the effects of excessively warm temperatures," Nielsen said.
 "Certainly not every field of corn is in dire straits at the moment. Certainly there will be fields of corn that yield well or possibly better than they ever have in the past.
 Just as certainly, there will be fields with significant yield losses due to excessively dry soils and excessively hot temperatures during the past 30 days or so.
" Severe stress this late in the growing season, especially during grainfill after successful pollination and kernel set, can cause plants to 'cannibalize' themselves to meet carbohydrate needs of developing grain, Nielsen said.
 Corn plants taking stored carbohydrate reserves in lower stalk and leaf tissues and moving them to developing ears can cause weakening of lower stalks and higher risk of root and stalk rots.
 "Such cannibalized or diseased plants are naturally more apt to break over or lodge in response to strong winds, potentially turning grain harvest into a frustrating and challenging operation," Nielsen said.
 "Growers ought to be walking drought-stressed fields during the next several weeks to assess the presence and severity of weakened stalks, then work toward prioritizing the weakest fields for early harvest to minimize the risk of significant mechanical harvest yield losses.
" For more information and frequent updates about the corn crop, visit Nielsen's "Chat ‘N Chew Café" website at http://www.agry.purdue.edu/ext/corn/cafe/
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/dry-weather-threatens-previously-optimistic-hogs-outlook.html
<Content> Dry weather threatens previously optimistic hogs outlook
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Sharp increases in feed prices brought about by the onset of more widespread hot, dry weather have threatened the potential for hog producers to return to profitability, Purdue Extension agricultural economist Chris Hurt says.
 December corn futures rose to $5 per bushel - a $0.50 increase since the early August lows and soybean meal increased $90 per ton.
 These equate to about $5 higher hog production costs per live hundredweight. While that doesn't completely dash producers' hopes of returning to profitability, it does mean they need to think twice before growing their operations.
 "This has not wiped out profit potential, but should make hog producers more cautious about expansion," Hurt said. "Expected margins have narrowed, but not collapsed.
" Hog producers can cover their costs with hog prices above $59 per hundredweight, he said. Current forecasts show fall and winter hog prices at $61 per hundredweight, which should rise to about $65 in the second quarter of 2014 before falling back to $62 for the third-quarter average.
 If the forecasts are correct, the average per-hundredweight price over the remainder of 2013 through the third quarter of 2014 would be $62.50 per live hundredweight, which Hurt said would lead to expected average profits of $3.50 per hundred weight, or $10 per head.
 "The unexpected recent surge in feed prices might cause some preliminary expansion plans to be aborted and therefore, increases the likelihood that lean hog futures prices also will rise some from current levels that are based on expectations of larger expansion," Hurt said.
 At this point, there's no way to know exactly how much corn and soybeans will yield, how much grain and feed prices will increase or how they will affect hog producers.
 Both crop and livestock producers will know more when the U.S. Department of Agriculture releases its Sept. 12 crop production report, but feed prices won’t be known with any real certainty until harvest is underway.
 In addition to the uncertainty in feed prices, hog producers also need to be cautious about expansion because even small growth in the national breeding herd could increase pork supplies enough to send the industry back into losses starting in the fall of 2014, Hurt said.
 "Expansion needs to be constrained to no more than a 3 percent increase in the breeding herd over the next year," he said. "A 2-3 percent breeding herd expansion would be expected to push the industry back to breakeven.
" While a 2 percent increase in the breeding herd might seem like a relatively small expansion, it means exponential growth in production.
 "A 2 percent increase in the breeding herd means about a 4 percent expansion in hog production," Hurt said. Other meats, such as poultry and beef, also will play a role in pork profitability because meat producers compete for consumers.
 However, current forecasts show beef production down 5 percent, which means pork producers could grab a larger share of meat consumption.
 "When all of these factors are brought together, it means that the industry should strive for a modest expansion," he said. "Advice to individual pork producers at this point is to limit expansion to 2 or 3 percent.
" To read Hurt's full report, "Hog Outlook Turns Less Optimistic," log on to Farmdoc Daily's Weekly Outlook at http://farmdoc.illinois.edu/marketing/weekly/html/082613.html
. Farmdoc is a service of the University of Illinois.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/duke-energy-chairman-to-speak-on-u.s.-energy-future-at-purdues-discovery-lecture-series.html
<Content> Duke Energy chairman to speak on U.S. energy future at Purdue's Discovery Lecture Series
 Duke Energy Corp. Chairman Jim Rogers, far right, talks to Vivien Lie, a Purdue undergraduate student in biology, about her wind energy research project during the opening reception of the 2013 Energy Academy at Purdue last June.
 Purdue Energy Center managing director Pankaj Sharma listens on. (Purdue University file photo/Phillip Fiorini) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - Duke Energy Corp. Chairman Jim Rogers, regarded as one of the most dynamic executives in the utility industry the past two decades, will return to Purdue University this fall for a talk as part of the 
Discovery Lecture Series. Rogers, who spoke to a group of high school students and teachers during the Purdue Energy Academy this summer, will give the keynote at 3:30 p.m.
 Oct. 24 in Stewart Center's Fowler Hall. The talk, titled Shedding Light on America's Energy Future, is free and open to the general public.
 "Chairman Rogers' message combines the forward thinking of a longtime electric utility industry leader with the passion that inspires our current and future generation of leaders about how to have a lasting impact on our world," said Alan Rebar, director of 
Discovery Park and senior associate vice president for research at Purdue. "Purdue is honored that he will join the growing list of impressive speakers who have been a part of our Discovery Lecture Series.
" While at Purdue, Rogers will tour Discovery Park and the new Ray W. Herrick Laboratories and learn about the university's cutting-edge research programs in electricity systems and smart buildings as well as energy research efforts grounded in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) disciplines.
 Purdue Energy Center and the Lilly Endowment are primary sponsors for the Discovery Lecture. Through a $1 million gift to Discovery Park from Indianapolis-based Lilly Endowment, Purdue launched the Discovery Lecture Series in 2006 to bring prominent speakers to campus.
 Rogers served as Duke Energy's president and chief executive officer from April 2006 until stepping down from those roles on July 1.
 He has been chairman of Duke Energy since January 2007 and will remain in that position until he retires in December. During Rogers' tenure as CEO, Duke Energy was recognized as a leader in sustainability, balancing the "triple bottom line of people, planet and profits.
" Earlier this month, Rogers received the Distinguished Leadership Award from the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) for his 25 years of service as an electric utility chief executive officer.
 "As a trailblazer for the utility industry, Jim Rogers has made it a priority during his years at Duke Energy to develop solutions for sustainable energy future by bringing together government, electric utility, environmental leaders and university researchers," said Maureen McCann, a professor of biological sciences and director of the Purdue Energy Center.
 "He understands that a solution to our major energy challenges will come from every stakeholder at the table." Among his accomplishments, Rogers helped forge the largest electric power holding company in the United States in 2012 with the merger of Duke Energy and Progress Energy.
 Before the merger between Duke Energy and Cinergy in 2006, Rogers served as Cinergy's chairman and CEO for more than 11 years. Prior to the formation of Cinergy, Rogers led PSI Energy as its chairman, president and CEO, beginning in 1988.
 Rogers, who also is an attorney, served as EEI chairman in 2006 and 2007 and is currently on EEI's executive committee. He was the founding chairman of IEE, an institute of the Edison Foundation that focuses on advancing the adoption of innovative and efficient technologies among electric utilities and their technology partners.
 He also is former co-chair and current board member of the Alliance to Save Energy and past co-chair of the National Action Plan for Energy Efficiency.
 He serves on the boards of the Aspen Institute, Brookings Institute and Duke University's Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions.
 Rogers is a lifetime member of the Council on Foreign Relations. During his career, Rogers has served on the boards of directors of eight Fortune 500 companies, and is currently a director of Cigna Corp.
 and Applied Materials Inc. Rogers received his bachelor of business administration and his jurisdoctorate degrees from the University of Kentucky, where he was a member of the Kentucky Law Journal and Beta Gamma Sigma National Honor Society.
 Charlotte, N.C.-based Duke Energy, a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange, controls utilities that serve more than 7 million customers in the Carolinas, Florida, Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky.
 Duke Energy expanded significantly last year with its $26 billion acquisition of Progress Energy, and its commercial power and international businesses operate diverse power generation assets in North America and Latin America, including a growing renewable energy portfolio.
 Faculty, staff, and students from nine colleges and schools and Purdue Physical Facilities are working with the Energy Center in advancing interdisciplinary research in areas such as bioenergy, clean-coal technologies, and batteries and advanced electrochemical systems to hydrogen, nuclear, solar, nanotechnology, wind and water.
 The Purdue Energy Center is partnering with Duke Energy again next summer for the Energy Academy at Purdue, an activity for middle school and high school teachers and students focused on the STEM disciplines - science, technology, mathematics and engineering.
 The program, led by Energy Center managing director Pankaj Sharma, also provides hands-on activities and laboratories for research and innovations, entrepreneurship opportunities and careers in energy.
 Discovery Park, which is located on the southwestern edge of Purdue's West Lafayette campus, is a $965 million hub for interdisciplinary research and home to major centers focusing on everything from biosciences, nanotechnology and entrepreneurship to oncological sciences, homeland and cybersecurity and health-care engineering.
 Maureen McCann, 765-496-1779, mmccann@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/early-fall-is-a-good-time-to-assess-pastures,-plan-improvements.html
<Content> Early fall is a good time to assess pastures, plan improvements
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – October is a good month for livestock producers to look at pastures to see what's there and what might need a boost to help improve grazing yield and quality for next year, a Purdue Extension forage specialist says.
 Looking at pastures early gives producers time to plan for, and implement, stand improvement and weed control. "Early fall is a wonderful time to assess perennial pastures and hay fields, because the season is about over and there are still actively growing plants," Keith Johnson said.
 "It also gives us enough time to get some matters accomplished, such as making plans for soil testing and application of fertilizers or limestone.
" A soil test, which gives pH and nutrient information, should be the first step. If farmers have questions about proper soil sampling procedures, they can contact a local Purdue Extension agricultural and natural resources educator or an agribusiness consultant who specializes in soil fertility.
 "Some people want to start with seed selection to improve a thin or unproductive forage stand," Johnson said. "But throwing more seed on the ground will not give desired results if they haven't taken care of the underlying problem.
 They need to do a soil test first if one has not been done in the last couple of years." Johnson said the foundation for most pastures in Indiana and the Midwest should be cool-season grasses and legumes.
 But producers may have the opportunity to use warm-season perennials or annuals in individual fields. Producers should also be scouting pastures for weeds.
 Many weeds can be problematic, but producers need to pay special attention to poisonous weeds and perennial weeds that vegetatively propagate, which means they spread by means other than a seed.
 "If producers identify weeds that truly are or will be a problem in the future, then they need to get them under control," Johnson said.
 "Herbicide application could still happen this fall if actively growing vegetation is present and the temperature is warm enough for translocation of the herbicide.
" Producers need to look at herbicide labels for specific details and be attentive to grazing and plant-back restrictions. After soil test results have been received, Johnson said they should also consider adding recommended amendments as soon as possible.
 "We like to fertilize actively growing perennial plants with phosphorus and potassium before the growth cycle is done for the season, and that will come to an end soon," he said.
 Applying limestone to increase soil pH is still possible this fall, and applying it now will give the soil time to adjust pH over the winter.
 If pastures did well this year and there's still a lot of forage growth, Johnson recommended that farmers allow animals to graze to reduce the amount of forage present in the pasture.
 "Four inches or less should be left in the pasture for 2013 if overseeding in late winter occurs," Johnson said. "We want seeds to get to the soil surface, not stuck in leftover forage.
" Producers can find more information in the Forage Field Guide, ID-317, which is available in Purdue Extension's The Education Store
 for $7 per copy. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/ejeta-is-appointed-to-u.n.-scientific-advisory-board.html
<Content> Ejeta is appointed to U.N. Scientific Advisory Board
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University distinguished professor of agronomy and World Food Prize laureate Gebisa Ejeta has been appointed to the U.N.
 secretary-general's newly created Scientific Advisory Board. The appointment by U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon places Ejeta as the only agricultural scientist on the 26-member board.
 It is composed of internationally renowned scientists representing various fields of natural, social and human sciences. The board will provide advice on science, technology and innovation for sustainable development to the secretary-general and executive heads of relevant United Nations organizations.
 Some key objectives will be to strengthen the link between science and policy and to ensure that the latest scientific findings are reflected in high-level policy discussions within the U.N.
 Creation of the board was among recommendations of a high-level panel, which prepared a report on global sustainability in advance of the 
U.N. Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro Rio last year. "It is a great honor and responsibility to have the chance to work at the highest level of global science policy and diplomacy," Ejeta said.
 "I will try to be a good ambassador of agricultural sciences to uphold the indispensability of food and agriculture, and to impart that feeding humanity sustainably in the foreseeable and unforeseeable future is the ultimate responsibility of all nations.
 I hope to make a difference." Ejeta received the 2009 World Food Prize for developing a drought- and disease-resistant sorghum. 
In 2011, Purdue created the Center for Global Food Security, of which Ejeta is executive director. Also that year, Ejeta received a presidential appointment to the 
Board for International Food and Agricultural Development. He also was appointed a science envoy for the U.S. State Department in 2010.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/ejeta-is-appointed-to-u.n.-scientific-advisory-board.html
<Content> Ejeta is appointed to U.N. Scientific Advisory Board
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University distinguished professor of agronomy and World Food Prize laureate Gebisa Ejeta has been appointed to the U.N.
 secretary-general's newly created Scientific Advisory Board. The appointment by U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon places Ejeta as the only agricultural scientist on the 26-member board.
 It is composed of internationally renowned scientists representing various fields of natural, social and human sciences. The board will provide advice on science, technology and innovation for sustainable development to the secretary-general and executive heads of relevant United Nations organizations.
 Some key objectives will be to strengthen the link between science and policy and to ensure that the latest scientific findings are reflected in high-level policy discussions within the U.N.
 Creation of the board was among recommendations of a high-level panel, which prepared a report on global sustainability in advance of the 
U.N. Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro Rio last year. "It is a great honor and responsibility to have the chance to work at the highest level of global science policy and diplomacy," Ejeta said.
 "I will try to be a good ambassador of agricultural sciences to uphold the indispensability of food and agriculture, and to impart that feeding humanity sustainably in the foreseeable and unforeseeable future is the ultimate responsibility of all nations.
 I hope to make a difference." Ejeta received the 2009 World Food Prize for developing a drought- and disease-resistant sorghum. 
In 2011, Purdue created the Center for Global Food Security, of which Ejeta is executive director. Also that year, Ejeta received a presidential appointment to the 
Board for International Food and Agricultural Development. He also was appointed a science envoy for the U.S. State Department in 2010.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/ejeta-is-appointed-to-u.n.-scientific-advisory-board.html
<Content> Ejeta is appointed to U.N. Scientific Advisory Board
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University distinguished professor of agronomy and World Food Prize laureate Gebisa Ejeta has been appointed to the U.N.
 secretary-general's newly created Scientific Advisory Board. The appointment by U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon places Ejeta as the only agricultural scientist on the 26-member board.
 It is composed of internationally renowned scientists representing various fields of natural, social and human sciences. The board will provide advice on science, technology and innovation for sustainable development to the secretary-general and executive heads of relevant United Nations organizations.
 Some key objectives will be to strengthen the link between science and policy and to ensure that the latest scientific findings are reflected in high-level policy discussions within the U.N.
 Creation of the board was among recommendations of a high-level panel, which prepared a report on global sustainability in advance of the 
U.N. Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro Rio last year. "It is a great honor and responsibility to have the chance to work at the highest level of global science policy and diplomacy," Ejeta said.
 "I will try to be a good ambassador of agricultural sciences to uphold the indispensability of food and agriculture, and to impart that feeding humanity sustainably in the foreseeable and unforeseeable future is the ultimate responsibility of all nations.
 I hope to make a difference." Ejeta received the 2009 World Food Prize for developing a drought- and disease-resistant sorghum. 
In 2011, Purdue created the Center for Global Food Security, of which Ejeta is executive director. Also that year, Ejeta received a presidential appointment to the 
Board for International Food and Agricultural Development. He also was appointed a science envoy for the U.S. State Department in 2010.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/electrical-engineering-professor-honored-with-purdue-research-award.html
<Content> Electrical engineering professor honored with Purdue research award
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Andrew Weiner, the Scifres Family Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, is the 2013 recipient of the Herbert Newby McCoy Award, the most prestigious research honor in the natural sciences given by Purdue University.
 Weiner and his team have shown how to finely control the spectral and temporal properties of ultrafast light pulses, a step toward creating advanced sensors, more powerful communications technologies and more precise laboratory instruments.
 The pulses could be likened to strobes used in high-speed photography to freeze fast-moving objects. These laser pulses, however, are millions of times faster, with flashes lasting as little as a quadrillionth of a second - a femtosecond.
 The properties of the pulses, when represented on a graph, take on specific shapes that characterize the changing light intensity from the beginning to end of each pulse.
 Precisely controlling this intensity, which is called "pulse shaping," enables researchers to tune the laser pulses to suit specific applications.
 "As a result of Professor Weiner's work, pulse shaping is now used in ultrafast optics laboratories around the world," said Richard Buckius, Purdue's vice president for research.
 "His discoveries have influenced research in fields ranging from quantum control to high-speed light-wave communications." Weiner's recent work has focused on line-by-line pulse shaping, ultrabroadband radio frequency photonics and microresonator-based signal processing, efforts which continue to push the boundaries of optical science.
 Weiner earned his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in electrical engineering from Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 He joined the Purdue faculty as a professor in 1992 and was named a distinguished professor in 2002. Weiner is author of the textbook "Ultrafast Optics," has published six book chapters and approximately 250 journal articles, and holds 13 U.S.
 patents. He is a fellow both of the Optical Society of America and of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and is a member of the U.S.
 National Academy of Engineering. He has won numerous awards for his research, including the Hertz Foundation Doctoral Thesis Prize, the Adolph Lomb Medal of the Optical Society of America, the Curtis McGraw Research Award of the American Society of Engineering Education, the International Commission on Optics Prize, the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation Research Award for Senior U.S.
 Scientists and the IEEE Photonics Society Quantum Electronics Award. In 2009 Weiner was named a U.S. Department of Defense National Security Science and Engineering Faculty Fellow.
 The McCoy Award, established in 1964 by Ethel Terry McCoy in memory of her husband, is presented annually to a Purdue student or faculty member for outstanding contributions to the natural sciences.
 The winner is nominated by colleagues and selected by faculty representatives and the university president. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/employees-should-plan-catch-up-tax-deferred-annuity-contributions-in-advance.html
<Content> Employees should plan catch-up tax-deferred annuity contributions in advance
 A limited number of pay periods remain in 2013 for those wishing to maximize contributions to their tax-deferred annuity (TDA). 
 The IRS annually sets limits on the amount that employees can set aside in tax-favored retirement accounts. For 2013, the payroll system is set to monitor the voluntary 403(b) and 457(b) plans so that contributions do not exceed $17,500.
 For both voluntary plans, employees who are at least 50 years old during the calendar year may make additional catch-up contributions.
 The maximum catch-up contribution is $5,500 in 2013. Changes are made via Fidelity’s online NetBenefits system at http://plan.fidelity.com/purdue
 (for monthly paid exempt staff) and http://plan.fidelity.com/purduenonexempt (for biweekly paid non-exempt staff). Contributions must be calculated as a percentage of pay, instead of a dollar amount.
 Given the end-of-year holiday schedule, the payroll processes are earlier than usual. Please note the remaining pay dates, along with the normal data transmission window.
 Employees needing assistance with setting up a deferral may contact Purdue's local Fidelity office. Call 800-544-6868 to set up an appointment.
</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/employees-who-dont-enroll-will-be-placed-in-highest-deductible-medical-plan-for-2014.html
<Content> Employees who don't enroll will be placed in highest-deductible medical plan for 2014
 All benefits-eligible employees who do not take advantage of their opportunity to choose a 2014 medical plan or to opt out of Purdue medical coverage for next year by 6 p.m.
 (ET) Nov. 15 will be automatically enrolled in 2014's highest-deductible medical plan, the Purdue Health Plan Plus HSA 2. The automatic enrollment extends even to those who are currently opted out of Purdue medical insurance.
 However, these employees will miss out on one of the key features of the plan -- a health savings account (HSA) through Purdue. Purdue can open an HSA for an employee only when he or she authorizes it during benefits open enrollment.
 Consequently, employees who do not actively enroll in the Purdue Health Plan Plus HSA 2 will not have a health savings account (HSA) through the University and will not receive an HSA contribution from Purdue.
 * The employee may be able to open an HSA through a financial institution but will not be able to open an HSA through Purdue in 2014.
 * Eligible family members the employee currently covers on a Purdue medical plan will be enrolled automatically in the Purdue Health Plan Plus HSA 2 for 2014.
 * The employee and any covered spouse/same-sex domestic partner (SSDP) will be charged the $500 per person annual tobacco-user additional premium.
 * The employee will be charged tobacco-user rates on any additional employee term life insurance the employee carries. * The employee will have no contributions to a flexible spending account (including health care and limited purpose FSAs).
 Benefits information and enrollment assistance are available through www.purdue.edu/benefits/enroll.html, 49-42222, hr@purdue.edu
 and www.purdue.edu/HRHelp.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/engineering-pre-eminent-teams-get-priority-in-hiring.html
<Content> Engineering pre-eminent teams get priority in hiring
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University's College of Engineering has named four research teams that will be a priority for faculty hiring during the coming year.
 The teams were chosen because the work they do has the potential for dramatic impact and international pre-eminence. They are part of the college's strategic growth plan that will add as many as 107 faculty over five years.
 In addition to the team hiring, other hires are related to strengthening disciplines and taking advantage of opportunities to enhance quality or diversity.
 The strategic growth plan is part of Purdue Moves, a range of initiatives designed to broaden Purdue's global impact and enhance educational opportunities for its students.
 "The pre-eminent teams are a research-centric approach to faculty hiring," said Leah Jamieson, the John A. Edwardson Dean of Engineering.
 "We asked the candidates to tell us how they would form a team to catapult their research to the level of international prominence.
 That was the starting point for choosing the first-year teams." The teams already are part of the college. To become pre-eminent teams, they went through a process similar to a pitch entrepreneurs would give to venture capitalists.
 In the first round, 32 team leaders competed before a panel of distinguished engineering faculty. In the second round, 12 team leaders made their pitches to a panel, with half of its members coming from outside the university.
 From the university, panelists were from both inside and outside of the College of Engineering. "The successful teams showed agility, creativity, a willingness to take risks and an ability to move outside their comfort zones," Jamieson said.
 * Implantable networks of wireless nanoelectronic devices to enable medical treatment through sensors and actuators. The team is led by Pedro P.
 Irazoqui, director of Purdue's Center for Implantable Devices, associate head for research, associate professor in the Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, and associate professor of electrical and computer engineering.
 Wireless implantable devices are being developed for various potential applications including monitoring and suppression of epileptic seizures; prosthesis control for injured military personnel; modulation of cardiac arrhythmias; treatment of depression and gastroparesis, a partial paralysis of the stomach; and monitoring of intraocular pressure and therapeutic intervention for glaucoma.
 The research calls for a partnership among the Center for Implantable Devices with the National Science Foundation NEEDS (Nano-Engineered Electronic Device Simulation) initiative led by Mark Lundstrom, the Don and Carol Scifres Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering; the Goodman Campbell Brain and Spine neurosurgical practice; and the Indiana University School of Medicine.
 "The key enabling technologies come from nanotechnology," Irazoqui said. "Access to them comes from our partnership with NEEDS, and the clinical impact, which is the overarching goal, happens as a result of our partnership with the hospitals in Indianapolis.
" * Quantum photonics, which could make possible future quantum information systems far more powerful than today's computers. The research team is led by Vladimir M.
 Shalaev, scientific director of nanophotonics at Purdue's Birck Nanotechnology Center and the Robert and Anne Burnett Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering.
 The technology hinges on using single photons – the tiny particles that make up light – for switching and routing in future computers that might harness the exotic principles of quantum mechanics.
 The quantum information processing technology would use structures called metamaterials, artificial nanostructured media. The metamaterials, when combined with tiny optical emitters, could make possible a new hybrid technology that uses quantum light in future computers.
 Computers based on quantum physics would have quantum bits, or qubits, that exist in both the on and off states simultaneously, dramatically increasing the computer's power and memory.
 Quantum computers would take advantage of a strange phenomenon described by quantum theory called entanglement. Instead of only the states of one and zero, there are many possible entangled quantum states in between.
 "Other important quantum information applications include, for example, a quantum Internet, secure information, quantum simulators, atomic clocks, ultrapowerful sensors, quantum cryptography and teleportation," Shalaev said.
 * New methods to study energetic materials, including explosives, propellants and pyrotechnics, for applications largely focused on national defense and security.
 The research team is led by Stephen Beaudoin, a professor of chemical engineering. Researchers are working to characterize, detect and defeat existing and emerging energetic materials and to develop new and improved materials for military applications.
 The primary driver is in homeland security environments, work that aims to transform the way that explosives screening is performed, allowing the implementation of arrays of complementary sensors designed to detect and track explosives when they are at large distances from intended targets.
 Some technologies being developed will analyze the spectrum of light shining through vaporized samples. Others will analyze solid residues.
 The research includes work focusing on detecting traces of explosives, characterizing homemade explosives so that their threat can be better assessed, and using CT and other scanners to detect and identify bulk explosives in containers such as luggage and cargo cases.
 "The work we do aims to improve screening for explosives at airports, sea ports and other public venues like football arenas and the civilian infrastructure," Beaudoin said.
 * Techniques to more efficiently use the increasingly congested radio spectrum for communications in commercial, military and emergency services applications.
 The growing number of mobile devices in operation threatens a coming spectrum crisis. Advances are needed to ensure reliable communications to reduce dropped calls and slow downloads and to ease congestion over the airwaves.
 The research team is led by David Love, a professor of electrical and computer engineering and University Faculty Scholar. The effort dovetails with a recent national focus on the problem.
 Congress approved a national broadband plan in March 2010. The White House announced a $100 million investment in spectrum initiatives earlier this year, and efforts also involve multiple government agencies including the National Science Foundation and Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
 The research aims to help reduce interference in radio communications and allow high-priority radios for the military and disaster relief to operate with minimal disruption and loss of life, Love said.
 Researchers are developing advanced models and mathematical theory to better analyze and understand radio transmissions. "These teams have the potential to dramatically build on their current strengths with strategic hires," Jamieson said.
 "Their research will have far-reaching impact."</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/enterscape-launches-new-utility-usage-data-tool,-offers-free-trial.html
<Content> EnterScape launches new utility usage data tool, offers free trial
 NEW ALBANY, Ind. - EnterScape™, an industrial monitoring company, has developed a data delivery tool for its clients that could result in a more profitable operation by reducing utility charges.
 Bill Analyzer Pro pulls data from any utility in the world directly into UtilityRecon 2.0, EnterScape's software platform. Mark Raisor, chief operating officer, said clients could benefit in several ways.
 "Our clients will receive their billing information much quicker than bills carried by conventional methods," he said. "Clients also can do unlimited analysis and reporting on all aspects of their bill, including taxes, riders and demand charges.
" Raisor said the combination of Bill Analyzer Pro and EnterScape's other monitoring products and services could affect each client's bottom line.
 "When data delivered by Bill Analyzer Pro is combined with submetered data, our clients will have the ability to allocate energy costs directly into their products, assign these costs to departments and run a smart, more profitable and more energy efficient operation.
" EnterScape is providing prospective clients a free trial of Bill Analyzer Pro. To sign up for the trial, visit http://www.enterscape.com
 and click the Get Your Free Trial button. EnterScape's other products include UtilityRecon 2.0, the company's Web-based industrial monitoring software platform, and the 
RTI Kit, which includes monitoring devices, facility drawings and a full color-coded instruction manual. EnterScape has developed a SaaS business model and software platform for the industrial market.
 EnterScape's proprietary data management and reporting software, UtilityRecon 2.0, supports both utility (energy) and enterprise (process) monitoring.
 EnterScape can provide either a turn-key service, including data acquisition hardware and installation, or data management and hosting utilizing UtilityRecon 2.0.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Source: Mark Raisor, 812-725-2864, mraisor@enterscape.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/evcs-jimmy-simpson-wins-56th-annual-purdue-grand-prix.html
<Content> EVC's Jimmy Simpson wins 56th annual Purdue Grand Prix
 Jimmy Simpson of the Electric Vehicle Club (EVC) won Saturday's (April 20) 56th annual Purdue University Grand Prix race. (Purdue University photo/Steven Yang) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Jimmy Simpson of the Electric Vehicle Club (EVC) won Saturday's (April 20) 56th annual Purdue University Grand Prix race.
 Simpson is the first driver to win both the "gas" Grand Prix and the Purdue Electric Vehicle Grand Prix. In 2012 he won both the evGrandPrix at Purdue and the Purdue Collegiate evGrandPrix at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway.
 Starting on the pole, Simpson took the lead on the opening lap and led for nearly the entire 160-lap race, falling out of first for only about 19 laps after making a pit stop just past the race's halfway point.
 He went back in front on the 122nd lap and easily stayed there the rest of the way. James French, driving for MKR of Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis, finished second.
 Drivers from IUPUI had won the three previous Grand Prix races. "This is the first time I've run this race, and a lot of it is about consistency and staying out of trouble," said Simpson, a sophomore from Indianapolis who is studying communication.
 "That's what it's all about. It's not really about going fast. I can't thank the guys on my crew enough. They did a great job." 
French, a junior from Sheboygan, Wis., majoring in motorsports engineering, realized Simpson was the dominant driver. "Chaotic is the best word to describe my race," French said.
 "Once I saw I was in second place and a lap down, I put it in cruise mode and tried to stay out of trouble." Chris Young, of PIKE 2, a freshman from Riverhead, N.Y.
, majoring in mechanical engineering, finished third. Greg Burns from Sigma Chi 1, a junior from Lafayette, Ind., studying mechanical engineering, finished fourth.
 Matt Dean of Fairway 1, a senior from Bargersville, Ind., majoring in mechanical engineering, was fifth. Chuck Sprague, a Purdue alumnus who won the 1976 Grand Prix and works for Penske Racing, served as the event's grand marshal.
 Official results from the 2013 Grand Prix will be released Monday (April 22), following a standard review by the race's scoring board.
 Grand Prix Student Ambassadors presided over race-related events. They are Danielle Field, a junior who is a first-year professional student in the College of Pharmacy, and Jill Griffin, a junior in the College of Agriculture studying agribusiness management.
 Among their duties, ambassadors serve as spokespeople for the Grand Prix Foundation and encourage race support and business sponsorship.
 The ambassadors each received a $1,000 scholarship from the Grand Prix Foundation. Sixteen other students received scholarships ranging from $250-$750.
 The Grand Prix Foundation is a student-run, nonprofit group that conducts the kart race and related events to raise money for scholarships.
 The foundation also receives support from Coca-Cola, Lockheed Martin, Purdue Student Government, Monster, Bill DeFouw Chevrolet, Ferguson, Chauncey Square, Rolls Royce, AEC, Hungry Boiler, SVO, Buffalo Wild Wings, Bosch, SOGA, WAZY, WLFI, Insomnia Cookies, and Greyhouse Coffee and Supply.
 Source: Mary Farlow, director of promotions for Purdue Grand Prix Foundation, 260-571-8043, promotions@purduegrandprix.org Note to Journalists
: Broadcast-quality B-roll and sound bites from the race are available for download and use from ftp://news69.uns.purdue.edu/Public/
 (look in folder named PurdueGrandPrix2013) For more information, contact Jim Schenke, Purdue News Service, at 765-237-7296 or jschenke@purdue.edu
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/evening-sessions-added-for-two-benefit-presentations-daytime-sessions-continue-in-september.html
<Content> Evening sessions added for two benefit presentations; daytime sessions continue in September
 Human Resources has added two evening sessions to help faculty and staff boost their understanding of today's health care environment and learn more about 2014 medical plan options.
 This event reviews dynamics affecting Purdue's medical plans, highlights Purdue's proactive steps to control costs while continuing to provide high-quality, affordable health care for faculty and staff, and gives an overview of all three 2014 medical plan options.
 * Sept. 5 (Th) -- 2-3:15 p.m., Freehafer Hall, Room 1-1/1-2 * Sept. 9 (M) -- 2:30-3:45 p.m., LILY 2102 * Sept. 10 (Tu) -- 11 a.m.
-12:15 p.m., Burton Morgan Center, Room 121 * Sept. 13 (F) -- 10-11:15 a.m., Freehafer Hall, Room 1-1/1-2 * Sept. 24 (Tu) -- 8:30-9:45 a.m.
, Neil Armstrong Hall, Room 1109 This event covers how a high-deductible medical plan with a health savings account (HSA) works. The session explores questions people commonly have when considering a move to a high-deductible medical plan and looks at the advantages of an HSA.
 The evening session for this presentation will be at 5-6:30 p.m. Oct. 2 (W) in Stewart Center, Room 202. * Sept. 13 (F) -- 1-2:15 p.m.
, Freehafer Hall, Room 1-1/1-2 * Sept. 19 (Th) -- 10:30-11:45 a.m., University Hall, Room 017 * Sept. 24 (Tu) -- 10-11:15 a.m., Neil Armstrong Hall, Room 1109
 * Sept. 25 (W) -- 2-3:15 p.m., Physics Building, Room 331 The sessions are open to all benefits-eligible Purdue employees and their spouses/same-sex domestic partners.
 Employees may attend in paid status with supervisor approval. Pre-registration is not required. For more information on 2014 medical plans, go 
www.purdue.edu/benefits, call 49-42222 or send an email to hr@purdue.edu.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/event-to-honor-purdue-donors-richard,-suzanne-belcher.html
<Content> Event to honor Purdue donors Richard, Suzanne Belcher
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University President Mitch Daniels will host a community reception Wednesday (Oct. 16) in Rochester to honor local residents Richard and Suzanne Belcher.
 The Belchers are longtime Purdue supporters who have given significantly to the College of Agriculture and other areas. The event will begin at 4 p.m.
 Eastern time in the Fulton County Library. Those planning to attend are asked to RSVP by calling 800-213-3044 or emailing events@purdue.edu
. During the event, Daniels also will provide an update on initiatives designed to broaden Purdue's global impact and enhance educational opportunities for its students.
 The initiatives fall into four broad categories: science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) leadership; world-changing research; transformative education; and affordability and accessibility.
 The Belchers most recently have endowed the Belcher Chair in the College of Agriculture to promote leadership, discovery and engagement in environmental sustainability.
 The college will choose from among several disciplines to award the chair in the area of environmental sustainability deemed most effective.
 Earlier, the Belchers established the Richard and Suzanne Belcher Agriculture Scholarship for students in the college. Predating those gifts is the Chester B.
 Biddle Memorial Scholarship, which honors Suzanne Belcher's father. The Belchers also have supported the College of Liberal Arts; Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences; and the John Purdue Club.
 "Richard and Suzanne Belcher show the impact that our supporters have in making Purdue great," Daniels said. "I especially applaud their dedication to making college more affordable by supporting students through their scholarships.
" Richard "Dick" Belcher earned a bachelor's degree in agricultural economics from Purdue in 1956. He opened First Federal Savings Bank in Rochester in 1966 and grew it to six branches, including one in Mishawaka that was Indiana's first LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certified "green" bank.
 Suzanne Belcher earned a bachelor's degree in 1957 in speech pathology and audiology. She was a speech and hearing clinician for Argos County schools.
 During the program, Daniels will give the Belchers the President's Council Pinnacle Award, the highest recognition for philanthropic contributions to Purdue.
 Also participating in the event will be Jay Akridge, Purdue's Glenn W. Sample Dean of Agriculture, and Kirk Cerny, president and CEO of the Purdue Alumni Association.
 Note to Journalists: A media availability with Purdue President Mitch Daniels and Richard and Suzanne Belcher will begin at 3:55 p.m.
 Eastern time at the library. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/events-focus-on-asians-and-asian-americans,-cultural-understanding.html
<Content> Events focus on Asians and Asian Americans, cultural understanding
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A series of events Feb. 5-8 will focus on cultural issues and the Asian and Asian American experience at Purdue University.
 The four events for the Purdue Asian and Asian American Voices: Engaging, Empowering, Enabling series are free and open to the public.
 The series is sponsored by the Purdue student group Asian Pacific American Caucus. * Feb. 5. 3-5 p.m. Stewart Center, Room 302. "Being Asian & Asian American at Purdue: A Roundtable.
" The panelists include Ei-Ichi Negishi, the Herbert Brown Distinguished Professor of Chemistry and 2010 Nobel Prize winner; Song No, associate dean in the College of Liberal Arts; Wei Hong, professor of Chinese and director of the Confucius Institute at Purdue; Rebecca Wong, psychologist at the Purdue University Counseling and Psychological Services; Patrocinio Schweickart, professor of English and Women's Studies; Adlina Maulod, doctoral student in anthropology; and Victoria Loong, undergraduate student in psychology and law and society.
 * Feb. 6. 3-5 p.m. Mechanical Engineering Building, Room 1009. "College Racism: Racist vs. Racial Humor." The Asian Pacific American Caucus student leaders will facilitate a discussion on the differences between racial and racist humor, how they affect college campuses, and how campus communities can productively respond when witnessing racist humor.
 * Feb. 7. 3-5 p.m. Purdue Memorial Union, East Faculty Lounge. "Reflections on Asian American Performance Onstage and Offstage." Presented by Josephine Lee, professor of English and Asian American Studies at the University of Minnesota, Twin Cities.
 This event is sponsored by the Center for Research on Diversity and Inclusion, with additional support from the Asian Pacific American Caucus, departments of English, Political Science and Sociology and Asian American Studies and American Studies programs.
 * Feb. 8. 3-5 p.m. Stewart Center, Room 302. "Building Asian American Studies from the (Frozen) Ground Up: Motivation, Machination, Maintenance.
" Presented by Josephine Lee. Sources: Hana Lee, doctoral student in American Studies and president for the Asian Pacific American Caucus, 
lee1003@purdue.edu Pamela K. Sari, doctoral candidate in American Studies and secretary for the Asian Pacific American Caucus, psari@purdue.edu
 Monica Trieu, an assistant professor of sociology and Asian American Studies and co-faculty advisor for the Asian Pacific American Caucus, 
mtrieu@purdue.edu S. Laurel Weldon, professor of political science and director of the Center for Research on Diversity and Inclusion, 
weldons@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q2/excited-about-a-cloudy-future-at-purdue-university-and-emc-bringing-massive-data-storage-to-students-and-faculty.html
<Content> Excited about a cloudy future at Purdue: University and EMC bringing massive data storage to students and faculty
 Excited about a cloudy future at Purdue: University and EMC bringing massive data storage to students and faculty WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 — Comedian George Carlin famously observed that all you need in life is a place to put your stuff. For college students, where to put their digital stuff, including materials developed through their academic careers, their many favorite photos, and a multitude of other digital files, can be a problem.
 It's an even bigger problem for researchers and instructors who may have enormous data files that need to be managed, curated and analyzed.
 A new service at Purdue, however, called BoilerBackpack, will give students, faculty and staff 100 gigabytes of personal storage, so everyone at Purdue will have a large amount of space to store their digital stuff.
 Purdue and EMC Corp. are embarking on a five-year relationship that will both address the issue of where students and faculty can put their digital files, as well as develop solutions that can be adapted throughout higher education.
 "When we looked to solve our data management and storage issues, we wanted to look well beyond current practices and work to develop new solutions that can move science forward and improve student success," says 
Gerry McCartney, chief information officer, faculty member of the College of Technology at Purdue, and the Olga Oesterle England Professor of Information Technology.
 "EMC is the only corporation we talked to that had the capability to both address our current data storage needs and to partner with us to develop new technologies to improve data management.
" Purdue is naming EMC as one of its Foundational IT Partners, a group that includes Intel, HP, and Cisco. Foundational IT Partners work with the university in developing new technologies to be used in higher education and scientific discovery.
 The Purdue partnership fits well with EMC's goal of transforming IT, says Pat Gelsinger, President and Chief Operating Officer of EMC Information Infrastructure Products.
 "The amount of digital information in the world will grow forty-four fold this decade. And in some academic disciplines, such as bioinformatics, datasets have become so large that they defy the ability of conventional forms of information technology to store, manage, analyze, and gather important insights from them," Gelsinger says.
 "EMC's partnership with Purdue is designed to advance new technology architectures and algorithms to deal with the challenges of all of this Big Data.
" For faculty and students at Purdue, the most visible and immediate benefit of the agreement will be in place when they return for classes in the fall of 2012 with the launch of the BoilerBackpack service.
 The service will be similar to other popular cloud data services which typically offer between 2 GB to 7GB of free storage. Like those services, Backpack will allow students and faculty to sync files, access those files from any computer, and share files or folders with others.
 BoilerBackpack apps will be available for Android smartphones, Apple iPhones and iPads, as well as apps for Windows and Macintosh desktop computers.
 As with the commercial services, BoilerBackpack users will be able to purchase additional storage space if needed, and the university is exploring ways to allow students to continue to use the service after they graduate.
 "We'll announce specific details of the service as it launches in August, but we're pleased to offer our students and faculty a needed resource that they wouldn't find at this scale on any other campus," McCartney says.
 Beyond the cloud storage service for the Purdue community, EMC and Purdue will work together in several specific ways: * EMC and Purdue will jointly develop a new architecture for research data management and curation.
 * EMC and Purdue will work to develop new technologies to ingest, analyze, transfer and manage enormous research data sets, especially in the field of bioinformatics.
 * With EMC's assistance, Purdue will begin building a repository of all Purdue intellectual property. * Research engineers and scientists from both organizations will work together on academic papers and presentations, as well as presentations at trade conferences.
 The Purdue-EMC relationship is needed to address the challenges and opportunities of using data analysis of massive data sets – so called Big Data - to gain insights and forecast outcomes by both researchers and students at Purdue.
 Purdue has been a leader in using data sets to improve student success and retention with its Signals data analytics program. "Big Data will be to the next decade what the Internet was to the 1990s and early 2000s," McCartney says.
 "Over the next ten years it will change businesses and education in ways that we can't imagine right now. With this partnership we're positioning Purdue to be a leader in these changes.
" "Our Foundational IT Partner companies have not only committed to provide excellent products and service to Purdue, but they have also committed to work with us to develop technologies to speed the pace of scientific discoveries and to improve the rate of student success in higher education," McCartney says.
 "EMC is exactly the kind of company we are looking to partner with in this effort, and because we will be advancing data science, this relationship has the potential to change every market that uses the Internet.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/exhibit-at-purdue-features-works-of-famous-suffragist-cartoonist.html
<Content> Exhibit at Purdue features works of famous suffragist cartoonist
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's Black Cultural Center in conjunction with Purdue Libraries and the Women's Studies program, are hosting an exhibit to celebrate Women's History Month.
 The exhibit, "A Woman Speaking to Women: The Political Art of Nina Allender," looks at the women's suffrage movement of the late 19th and 20th century through the political cartoons of Nina Allender.
 The Sewall-Belmont House and Museum in Washington, D.C. loaned Purdue her works for the exhibit, which is on display through April 12 at the Black Cultural Center.
 Born Nina Evans, Nina Allender was an artist, suffragist and feminist whose political cartoons are credited with helping alter public opinion on women's suffrage.
 Her early cartoons focused on issues such as poverty, child labor, worker exploitation and domestic responsibilities. Allender's focus shifted to the suffrage movement when she was asked to contribute to "The Suffragist," a weekly publication for the National Women's Party.
 When her final cartoon was published in 1927, Allender had contributed more than 150 cartoons to the newspaper. The women's suffrage movement in the United States came to the forefront with the Seneca Falls Convention in 1848.
 The Civil War put the movement on hold, but it gained momentum when the debate over African-American suffrage started. Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, two pivotal figures in the movement, opposed the passage of the 15th Amendment, which gave all males the right to vote.
 In 1920, Congress passed the 19th Amendment, which gave women the right to vote. The exhibit, curated by Purdue master of fine arts candidate LaToya M.
 Hobbs, can be viewed for free from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Friday and 5-9 p.m. on Sunday. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/expert-on-hurricane-katrina-anniversary.html
<Content> Expert on Hurricane Katrina Anniversary
 Aldrich is author of the book "Building Resilience: Social Capital in Post-Disaster Recovery," and he has studied evacuation, disaster recovery and community rebuilding following Hurricane Katrina, as well as other natural disasters.
 This year is the eighth anniversary of when Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans in Aug. 29 2005 causing flooding as levees broke. More than 1,800 people died.
 His research shows that people who have stronger individual friendships, community connections and civic involvement are more likely to have access to resources and information during and after a disaster.
 He also is focusing on what efforts can be made to protect vulnerable communities prior to a disaster. Specific to Hurricane Katrina, he has studied the political, social and geographic factors that influenced the placement of FEMA trailers and mobile homes.
 He also is the author of "Site Fights: Divisive Facilities and Civil Society in Japan and the West." He was a professor at Tulane University when Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans and credits a neighbor with encouraging his family to evacuate as the storm approached.
 He continues to work with colleagues at Louisiana State University to study disaster recovery after the hurricane. In addition to the 2005 hurricane, he also has focused on the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami in Tamil Nadu, the 1923 earthquake in Tokyo and the 1995 earthquake in Kobe, Japan.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/experts-to-speak-on-immigration-and-the-2012-election.html
<Content> Experts to speak on immigration and the 2012 election
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Immigration and the 2012 election is the topic for a political science roundtable on Sept. 20 at Purdue University.
 The event, which is free and open to the public, is 7-8:30 p.m. in Lynn Hall, Room 1136. A reception will follow the "Politics of Race, Immigration and Ethnicity Consortium" event, which also marks the launch of a new political science academic journal, 
Politics, Groups and Identities, that will be edited at Purdue. The nonpartisan panel discussion will explore how currents of race, ethnicity, class and gender shape the issue of immigration and how the issue is likely to affect, and be affected by, the November elections.
 * Lisa García Bedolla, an associate professor of social and cultural studies in the Graduate School of Education at the University of California, Berkeley, and chair of Berkeley's Center for Latino Policy Research.
 She is author of "Fluid Borders: Latino Power, Identity and Politics in Los Angeles." * Karthick Ramakrishnan, an associate professor of political science at the University of California, Riverside.
 Ramakrishnan directs the National Asian American Survey and studies civic participation, immigration policy and the politics of race, ethnicity and immigration in the United States.
 * Valeria Sinclair-Chapman, a senior lecturer at the University of Rochester. Her research focuses on the representation of black interests in Congress as well as minority agenda-setting on the national level.
 * Niambi Carter, an assistant professor of African American Studies at Temple University. Her research focuses on African-American politics and the politics of race in the United States.
 * James McCann, Purdue professor of political science, will moderate the event. McCann, who is the lead co-editor of the new journal 
Politics, Groups and Identities, studies public opinion, participation, political parties and representation, both in the United States and abroad.
 The event is sponsored by Purdue's Center for Research on Diversity and Inclusion, the Discovery Park Lecture Series, Global Policy Research Institute, the Office of the Provost, the Department of Political Science and Pi Sigma Alpha.
 More information about the event is available at http://www.priec2012.com/roundtable.html </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/extension-specialist-offers-reminders,-advice-for-winter-wheat-planting.html
<Content> Extension specialist offers reminders, advice for winter wheat planting
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Now that corn and soybean harvest are well underway, some Indiana farmers also should be thinking about planting their winter wheat crops, says a Purdue Extension wheat specialist.
 Winter wheat, a crop that can help manage fields with drainage issues in the spring and bring in extra revenue, is usually planted directly after fall harvest to allow time for emergence before the plant goes dormant during cold-weather months.
 "Wheat is a good option for a number of reasons," Shaun Casteel said. "In the northeast part of the state where poorly drained soils can cause problems in the spring, wheat can be used to reduce the pressure of planting corn or soy across that landscape.
 "In the southwest part of the state, there's a long-enough growing season to offer farmers another potential stream of revenue. Farmers can use double cropping and get both beans and wheat in.
 Wheat also provides a nice break in normal corn to soybean crop rotations." Casteel said the timing of wheat planting usually depends on three factors: corn and soybean harvest, weather and Hessian fly-free dates.
 Since wheat planting follows harvest, Casteel said it's always a good idea to start with as clean a field as possible in terms of weeds, and to correct nutritional deficiencies.
 If farmers are planting wheat following corn, the crop residue could be a source of disease for the wheat. This year, weather conditions have been favorable for Gibberella (also known as Fusarium graminearum in wheat) ear rot of corn in some fields.
 The fungus left behind in corn residue can transfer to a subsequent wheat crop, where it can cause head scab - a disease that can reduce yields and damage grain quality.
 The good news for wheat farmers is that after a flash-drought in parts of Indiana, much of the state has had rain recently. "Fortunately, most parts of the state got some rain over the last couple weeks, so we're starting to get a little bit of a recharge in soil moisture, at least in the upper portion of the soil," Casteel said.
 "If we have good soil moisture at planting, the crop will be off to a good start for stand establishment." Casteel also said farmers need to plant wheat after Hessian fly-free dates, which range from Sept.
 22 in northern Indiana to Oct. 9 in southern Indiana. "It's best to plant after those fly-free dates, or within 10 days or so of that date.
 The yield potential will likely drop if wheat is planted several weeks after that point. It's a balancing act," he said. Hessian flies are mosquitolike in appearance and feed on green plant growth, including developing wheat plants.
 More information about wheat, including planting considerations and growing season management, can be found in Purdue Extension's Wheat Field Guide, available through Purdue Extension's The Education Store at 
http://www.the-education-store.com (search ID-448). Copies are $5 each. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/extension-to-offer-2014-agricultural-outlook-webinar.html
<Content> Extension to offer 2014 agricultural outlook webinar
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue Extension will present a free webinar Sept. 13 to help farmers, land owners, input suppliers and others involved in agriculture make better business decisions in the next year.
 Extension agricultural economist Corinne Alexander will present the "2014 Agricultural Outlook Summary" at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). Attendees can sign in to the webinar as a guest at 
http://gomeet.itap.purdue.edu/outlook-2013 Alexander will discuss a number of important agricultural issues, including crop prospects and strategies for marketing this year's crops.
 "Indiana agriculture has returned to abundant production after the 2012 drought," she said. "Yield prospects for the state are among the best in the U.S.
, and this means the grain handling and processing industries will be returning to full capacity." Although late-season dryness and frost could still pose problems to crops, Indiana crop producers still expect good corn and soybean yields.
 Other webinar topics will be estimated costs for 2014 crop production and expected returns for each crop. "Farmers and agribusiness managers need to be thinking about what to plant in 2014," Alexander said.
 "Purdue has developed its first estimates of crop production costs, and there are some surprises." Grain prices need to be lower to encourage end users, such as livestock producers, to increase consumption.
 But Alexander said the animal sector is ready for an expansion, and she will discuss how big that expansion could be and which species could expand the most.
 Also included will be discussions about land values and cash rents, farm income and government policy. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/faculty,-staff-applications-for-trask-innovation-fund-awards-due-april-12.html
<Content> Faculty, staff applications for Trask Innovation Fund awards due April 12
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University researchers in all disciplines seeking funds to develop discoveries can submit proposals through Friday, April 12 to receive up to $50,000 for a six-month period from a fund managed by the 
Purdue Research Foundation. The Trask Innovation Fund is a development program to assist faculty and staff at all Purdue campuses who have disclosed a discovery to the Purdue 
Office of Technology Commercialization and are close to commercializing it. Faculty and staff must submit a proposal outline to their departmental business office.
 They will complete an online proposal submission form through Sponsored Program Services, where it will be recorded and forwarded to the Office of Technology Commercialization.
 Information about making proposals to the 10-member Trask Innovation Fund Advisory Council can be found at http://www.otc-prf.org/technology-transfer/funding/trask-innovation-proposal-guidelines
 In January 2013, the council awarded more than $260,000 to six proposals from Purdue researchers: * Paul Collodi, professor, and Ten-Tsao Wong, research associate, 
Department of Animal Sciences, "Large-scale Production of Infertile Fish for Aquaculture and the Pet Industry," $44,233. * Edward J.
 Delp, professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Carol Boushey, University of Hawaii Cancer Center, "TADA Commercialization," $32,944.
 * Alyssa Panitch, associate head and professor, Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, "Development of Proteoglycans for Treatment of Osteoarthritis," $45,203.
 * Y. Charlie Hu, professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, "Critical Prototype Development of Eprof: Fine-Grained Smartphone Energy Profiler," $50,000.
 * Jenna L. Rickus, associate professor, Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, "In Vivo Assessment of Biosilica Coated Cells," $50,000.
 * Kevin P. Trumble, professor, School of Materials Engineering; Srinivasan Chandrasekar, professor, School of Industrial Engineering
; and Mert Efe, post-doctoral fellow, School of Materials Engineering. "Scale-up of LSEM: A Low-cost and Energy-efficient Manufacturing Process for Metal Sheets and Strips," $37,950.
 The council is composed of representatives from Purdue Research Foundation, Purdue University Office of the Vice President for Research
, Purdue faculty and executives from the local business community. The council oversees two rounds of funding each year. The Purdue Research Foundation
 is a private, nonprofit foundation created to advance the mission of Purdue University. Established in 1930, the foundation accepts gifts, administers trusts; funds scholarships and grants, and acquires property on behalf of Purdue.
 The foundation oversees the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization, which operates one of the most comprehensive technology transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 In the 1990s, the foundation was charged with helping the university in the realm of economic development. The foundation oversees the Purdue Research Park, which is the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 Purdue Research Foundation contact: Steve Martin, Purdue Research Foundation 765-588-3342, sgmartin@prf.org </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/faculty-fellow-at-discovery-learning-research-center-focuses-on-distance-learning-in-cancer,-chronic-disease-prevention.html
<Content> Faculty fellow at Discovery Learning Research Center focuses on distance learning in cancer, chronic disease prevention
 Faculty fellow at Discovery Learning Research Center focuses on distance learning in cancer, chronic disease prevention WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - The Discovery Learning Research Center is partnering with a Purdue University basic medical sciences professor to advance a research project for interdisciplinary and distance learning based on the prevention of cancer and other chronic diseases.
 Sophie Lelièvre, the 2012 faculty fellow for the Discovery Learning Research Center and a College of Veterinary Medicine professor, is leading the effort to educate and focus the attention of researchers on the little-studied field of preventative medicine.
 "My goal is to develop a learning system across disciplines on primary prevention of breast cancer to facilitate the design of multidisciplinary research projects among scholars and prepare future scholars for interdisciplinary and international work in public health," Lelièvre said.
 Lelièvre (pronounced Le-LEE-YEA-vre) believes that primary prevention research is underrepresented in the scientific community.
 Her proposal for a distance-learning program was intended to correct this by exposing a large number of college science students across many universities to the current state of the research.
 Future members of the scientific community are drawn from this pool, so this should result in a greater awareness and representation of this field.
 Currently, Lelièvre is studying the development and behavior of both normal and cancerous cells, using a three-dimensional culture that permits the architectural mimicry of physiologically relevant tissue.
 In particular, this culturing method allows her to study the effect of polarity - the way cells organize themselves to make certain structures face certain directions - on the development of tumors.
 Her laboratory also examines how the genome of cells is affected by the organization of cell components in the nucleus in relation to tissue architecture.
 "Most of those who study cancer use already-cancerous cells for their research. In primary prevention research, you start with normal cells to see how they become abnormal," said Lelièvre, who also is associate director of Discovery Groups for the Purdue Center for Cancer Research.
 Lelièvre, who also co-leads the International Breast Cancer and Nutrition Project (IBCN), said this course was piloted in 2010, and she is now working with Purdue anthropology professor Ellen Gruenbaum.
 "This project serves the mission that the Discovery Learning Research Center has set to impact a global community by fostering the development of a large-scale interdisciplinary program focused on breast cancer prevention," said center director Gabriela Weaver.
 "It involves many disciplines in the areas of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), and its goal is to promote learning in public health issues with translational research impact and the potential to influence educational policies across the globe.
" Lelièvre and Connie Weaver, distinguished professor of foods and nutrition at Purdue, lead the multinational IBCN to learn more about the role that diet and other environmental factors can play to promote or prevent this disease.
 Involving the World Health Organization and the International Agency for Research on Cancer, IBCN is focusing initial efforts on the United States and Ghana as well as France, Japan, Uruguay and Lebanon.
 Its annual conference returns to the Purdue campus on Oct. 10-12. Lebanon is scheduled to host the 2013 conference. Purdue hosted the inaugural conference in 2010, and France was host in 2011.
 Through the project launched in 2010, each country has a dedicated research team focused on a number of milestones and allows scientists to study worldwide diversity in breast cancer rates, dietary patterns and cultural contexts.
 A native of France, Lelièvre earned her doctorate in veterinary medicine from the University of Louvain in Belgium in 1990 and her doctorate in cancer pharmacology in 1995 from the University of Paris VI.
 Lelièvre, who has been a Purdue faculty member since 2000, also earned a master's degree in law, health and ethics in 2008 from the University of Rennes I in partnership with the School of Public Health in France.
 Purdue's Discovery Learning Research Center advances research and innovation that revolutionizes learning in the STEM disciplines.
 Research involving learning spaces, both physical and virtual, are a cornerstone of activities in the center's new building, the Hall for Discovery and Learning Research.
 Since its 2003 launch, the center has catalyzed and collaborated on projects, receiving research funding of nearly $80 million focused on the science of learning, design of innovative educational programs and development of interactive learning technologies.
 It also leads more than 30 projects involving 180 faculty members from every Purdue college and school and has established collaborations with more than 50 external partners.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/famed-estonian-philharmonic-chamber-choir-to-perform-at-purdue.html
<Content> Famed Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir to perform at Purdue
 West Lafayette, Ind. – The Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir will perform at the St. Thomas Aquinas sanctuary at 7:30 p.m. Nov.
 20. This performance is presented by Purdue Convocations. Choral performance is a binding thread in Estonia's tapestry of cultural and political history.
 Laulupidu - an amateur choral event in Tallinn, Estonia, that draws more than 25,000 singers - had its formative roots in Estonia's 19th-century crusade toward self-government.
 More than a century later, the Singing Revolution's choral protests helped the nation regain independence from the Soviet Union.
 Founded in 1981 by Tõnu Kaljuste and now conducted by Daniel Reuss, the Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir is a premier ensemble formed from this tradition.
 The group has earned a Grammy Award and many nominations for its pristine and evocative recordings on the ECM, Harmonia Mundi and Virgin labels, and has been lauded during its frequent tours through Europe, Canada, Japan and the United States.
 Its Purdue program of sacred and liturgical pieces will center upon works from Estonian composers Arvo Pärt, Veljo Tormis, Cyrillus Kreek and Mart Saar, along with a work by Ukrainian composer Galina Grigorjeva.
 Tickets are $20 for adults and $15 for children 18 and younger, Purdue students and Ivy Tech Lafayette students. Tickets are available at the Elliott Hall and Stewart Center box offices at 765-494-3933 or 800-914-SHOW.
 Group discounts are also available to groups of 10 more. Call 765-496-1977 for more details or visit http://www.convocations.org/group-sales/
 Initiated in 1902, Purdue Convocations was one of the first professional performing arts presenters in the United States. Each year, Convocations offers the region 20-30 performances of widely varying genres.
 Purdue Convocations aims to promote frequent exposure to and familiarity with human cultural expression in a multitude of forms and media.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/farm-to-school-event-to-showcase-innovative-program-connecting----k-12-schools-to-better-nutrition,-ag-careers.html
<Content> Farm to School event to showcase innovative program connecting K-12 schools to better nutrition, ag careers
 Farm to School event to showcase innovative program connecting K-12 schools to better nutrition, ag careers WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - Purdue University will join state and local officials, educators, nutritionists and business owners for a Thursday (Oct. 24) event at 
Mintonye Elementary School in Tippecanoe County to promote partnerships between local food producers and schools. Indiana Gov. Mike Pence is scheduled to participate in the 
Indiana Farm to School event, which will coincide with National Food Day and will include student presentations, drawings, artwork and other activities centering on the state program.
 A grant benefiting Indiana Farm to School efforts also will be announced at the event, which will run from 10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
 Mintonye Elementary, a part of the Tippecanoe School Corp., is located at 2000 W. 800 S. off Indiana 231 south of Lafayette. "This exciting new program for Indiana encourages healthy lifestyles in our children, improving their chances for success in the classroom," said Lisa Kirkham, project coordinator for K-12 programs at the 
Discovery Learning Research Center in Purdue's Discovery Park. "It also goes beyond the classroom, supporting our local producers and providing a boost for our local economies and creating jobs.
" Mintonye principal Rob Skaggs and Lori Shofroth, director of the food service program for Tippecanoe School Corp., are helping Kirkham and the Purdue team organize the event.
 Representatives of the Indiana departments of Education, Health and Agriculture, as well as Lafayette bakery Great Harvest, Wea Creek Orchard and La Scala restaurant will participate.
 Jennifer Dennis, an associate professor of horticulture at Purdue, is leading efforts to develop a program for expanding Farm to School connections throughout Indiana.
 With a specialty crop block grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Katie Clayton, a food science extension outreach specialist at Purdue, is working to promote new connections between Indiana agriculture producers and schools.
 Jill Pritchard, program manager of Diversified Ag and Entrepreneurial Development for the Indiana State Department of Agriculture, said Indiana Farm to School also opens the eyes of students to career choices they might not have considered.
 "The USDA reports that the average age of a U.S. farmer today is 52 and that opportunities exist for growers of not just corn and soybeans but specialty crops like pumpkins and grapes, not to mention agritourism," she said.
 "Indiana Farm to School presents a forum for highlighting agriculture as a viable career option, connecting our growers with our students.
" Farm to School is designed to connect Indiana K-12 schools and local farms with the objectives of serving healthy meals in school cafeterias, improving student nutrition, providing agriculture, health and nutrition education opportunities, and supporting local and regional farmers.
 Kirkham, who also serves as co-chair of the Indiana Farm to School Farm education committee, said the program offers guidance for schools on how to include local products in school meals - breakfast, lunch, classrooms and afterschool snacks and in taste tests.
 Farm to Food also provides an educational component, encouraging schools to introduce food-related curriculum development and experiential learning opportunities through school gardens, farm tours, chefs in the classroom, culinary activities, educational sessions for parents and community members, and visits to farmers' markets.
 From just a handful of programs in the late 1990s, Farm to School is now operational in more than 10,000 schools spanning all 50 states.
 To assist its efforts, the National Farm to School Network was founded in 2007 through a yearlong collaborative planning process engaging more than 30 organizations across the country.
 Jill Pritchard, 317-800-1700, jpritchard@isda.in.gov</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/farmers,-landlords-enter-lease-renegotiations-as-fall-approaches.html
<Content> Farmers, landlords enter lease renegotiations as fall approaches
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Now that harvest is underway, many farmers and landlords might be negotiating, renegotiating or terminating lease agreements for the 2014 crop year.
 Farmers like to know as early as possible which land they will rent the following year and under what terms so they can make fertilizer, seed, fuel and other input decisions immediately following harvest.
 But landlords, who face a Nov. 30 deadline for lease terminations in the state of Indiana, sometimes want to wait until closer to the deadline so they have a better idea of what farm incomes might look like in the coming year.
 "Tenants like to know by September about land to lease for 2014 if they don't already have a lease arrangement for a particular farm or parcel," said Gerry Harrison, Purdue Extension agricultural economist.
 "However, a landlord might want to wait until November if there is doubt about the lease terms for 2013. The outlook for 2014 in November might be much different than in September of the current year.
" One lease arrangement that might suit both parties is a flexible lease. In this type of agreement, terms are included to address actual variations in crop yields or prices in determining a final rent payment, Harrison said.
 If a landlord or tenant is uncertain about continuing with the current terms of a lease arrangement, such as the rent rate, Harrison said it's best to start renegotiations with a notice to quit, or terminate a lease.
 "From litigation in Indiana in 2012, it would be careless to deal with anything other than a written notice, properly delivered, to end the current lease and to open up negotiation for new lease terms," he said.
 "To give notice to terminate an existing lease does not need to imply the tenant and landowner can't reach a new agreement, and tenants who have a lease in place for the coming year might be wise to revisit the arrangement with the landlord.
 "If there is no more than a comment or oral notice that a new rent or other new lease terms need to be agreed to, the parties to the lease might find that they are under the same terms for the 2014 lease.
" The only time tenants and landlords are not entitled to a written notice to quit is when the initial lease agreement is a term lease that specifically states it can be terminated orally.
 According to Harrison, both tenants and landlords can protect themselves by consulting farm attorneys to end current lease agreements and set up new ones.
 Purdue Extension offers free resources to help farmers and landowners better understand farmland leases through The Education Store at 
http://www.the-education-store.com/. Those publications include: * Legal Aspects of Indiana Farmland Leases and Federal Tax Considerations, written by Harrison.
 It can be downloaded by visiting the above URL and searching for "EC-713-W." * Indiana Cash Farm Lease, written by Purdue Extension agricultural economist Craig Dobbins.
 This publication helps farmers and landlords put lease agreements in writing and includes a blank cash lease form. It also can be downloaded through The Education Store by searching for "EC-257-W.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/farmers-should-avoid-overgrazing,-check-forage-inventories-now.html
<Content> Farmers should avoid overgrazing, check forage inventories now
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Drier weather in the last month has led to slow growth of forages in parts of Indiana, meaning livestock producers need to double-check their forage supplies for the rest of the season now, a Purdue Extension forage specialist says.
 Last year producers saw drier weather at the start of the season with timely rains beginning in August. This year, the soil was moist in the spring with dry weather later in the season.
 As of Thursday (Sept. 12), the U.S. Drought Monitor rated portions of 11 counties in northwestern Indiana in the moderate drought category, and much of the northern half of the state was listed as abnormally dry - a drought-watch category.
 "There are many regions that did not get the amount of moisture in August and early September needed to keep forage production moving forward," Keith Johnson said.
 "We shouldn't be overgrazing pastures that aren't growing well because of the lack of moisture. "If pastures are grazed too aggressively this fall, there will be less forage available in the spring.
" Cool-season grasses such as timothy, perennial ryegrass, tall fescue and orchardgrass should be accumulating new growth now as cooler temperatures occur and will produce tillers in the fall that initiate new growth in the spring.
 The late-summer growth that typically occurs has been deterred by hot conditions and lack of rain during this period. Along with avoiding overgrazing, Johnson recommended that farmers know what they have in inventory to evaluate if they have sufficient forage supplies to get through the late fall and winter.
 Farmers who think they will be short on forages going into winter have many options for supplementing current supplies. "If forages are insufficient, producers should find additional or alternative feed sources, or reduce the number of mouths to feed," Johnson said.
 "First, I would have them think about whether corn residue grazing or feeding harvested corn residues is a possibility in their livestock operation.
" Farmers should also start contacting other producers who might have a forage surplus and consider supplementing with byproduct feeds that work with the quality of forage being fed.
 "Lastly, I would say if there happens to be late planted corn and grain production is going to be heavily sacrificed, producers could consider making corn silage," Johnson said.
 Farmers with cornfields under severe drought stress should check with their crop insurance representative before silage harvest occurs.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/ferruzzi-chosen-for-purdue-agricultural-research-award.html
<Content> Ferruzzi chosen for Purdue Agricultural Research Award
 The glass on an exhaust hood serves as a convenient place for Mario Ferruzzi to record scientific data in the lab. (Purdue Agricultural Communication photo/Tom Campbell) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Professor of food and nutrition sciences Mario Ferruzzi will receive Purdue University's 2013 Agricultural Research Award for his work in helping to improve food quality and human health and to reduce chronic disease.
 The award is given each year to a faculty member in the College of Agriculture with less than 18 years of experience beyond a doctoral degree.
 It is for scientists who have demonstrated a high level of excellence in research and made significant contributions to agriculture, natural resources and quality of life for Indiana citizens.
 Ferruzzi has dual appointments in the College of Agriculture's Department of Food Science and the College of Health and Human Sciences' 
Department of Nutrition Science. "Mario has made exceptional contributions to understanding how food matrix and processing factors affect nutrient absorption from our food, and his work can lead to the further development of functional foods to improve human health," said Jay Akridge, Glenn W.
 Sample Dean of Agriculture. "He is most deserving of our college's top research award." Ferruzzi will receive the award Monday (May 13) at 10:30 a.m.
 EDT in the Deans Auditorium at Pfendler Hall on the West Lafayette campus. Ferruzzi's work will help the food industry develop products of improved nutritional and functional quality, said Karen Plaut, associate dean and director of Agricultural Research at Purdue.
 "Dr. Ferruzzi's research has an impact on fundamental and applied aspects of both food science and nutrition as he works to identify food science strategies that will contribute to improving human health and reducing chronic disease risk," she said.
 Ferruzzi's expertise has helped him develop and apply analytical methods for quantifying bioactive food components and phytochemicals in food, and assessing their bioavailability and distribution to body tissues.
 His findings have improved the understanding of the role that phytochemicals can have on human health, including diabetes, heart disease, cancer and Alzheimer's disease.
 Ferruzzi said the award is an acknowledgement of the many team efforts that have involved his work. "This is an individual award that is not individual in any way," he said.
 "We don't write grants in isolation, we don't do research in isolation, and we don't even get ideas in isolation anymore. "Collectively, we can do a lot of really good things together.
 I'm a prime example of that. I've made good decisions about the areas I've worked on, about how we've worked on them and how we've pursued the funding, and this award says good things about the collaborations I've been lucky enough to be a part of.
 " After earning his master's degree in 1998 and Ph.D. in 2001 in food science and nutrition at Ohio State University, Ferruzzi spent nearly three years in product research and development with Nestlé in the U.S.
 and Switzerland before joining the Purdue faculty in 2004. Mario Ferruzzi, 765-494-0625, mferruzz@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/ffa-chapters-earn-prizes-for-community-service-projects.html
<Content> FFA chapters earn prizes for community service projects
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Five Indiana community service organizations have been recognized for projects that help improve the lives of people with disabilities.
 The projects were part of the Bridging Horizons Community Service Contest, sponsored by Indiana AgrAbility, Breaking New Ground at Purdue University and 
DuPont Pioneer. The contest is an opportunity for community service organizations, such as FFA chapters, 4-H clubs, Junior Leaders and Girl/Boy Scouts to help community members overcome physical barriers.
 "This year's participants completed some significant projects in their communities," said Kylie Hendress, AgrAbility engagement coordinator.
 "From building sidewalks and ramps for public buildings to helping plant gardens and making raised garden beds, each of the projects made a substantial contribution to its community.
" The Carroll Fort Wayne FFA chapter won first place, with a $500 prize, for a project in which members designed and built a community garden at a local disability outreach center.
 They built two accessible picnic tables, two wheelchair accessible garden boxes, two ground-level garden boxes and two benches with planter boxes.
 The Sullivan FFA won second place, with a $250 prize, for building a wheelchair ramp at the Sullivan County Fairgrounds grandstand area.
 The members also put in a concrete sidewalk leading up to the ramp so visitors no longer have to travel through loose gravel to get to the grandstands.
 The Jay County FFA in Portland took third place and received a $150 prize for improving the accessibility of the vocational facilities at a local high school.
 The project was a new sidewalk that connects the agricultural buildings, providing students in wheelchairs or on crutches easier access to their classrooms.
 There also were two honorable mentions. One went to the Center Super Stars 4-H Club of Howard County for replacing the main entry door to the 4-H LEAD Center in Greentown from a manual door to an automatic one.
 The other recognized Girl Scout Troop 6203 Cadettes for completing several indoor and outdoor projects at a local health clinic.
 Information about the 2013-2014 contest is available at www.breakingnewground.info/horizons. The deadline for the contest is June 1.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/fiction-reading-with-paul-harding.html
<Content> Fiction reading with Paul Harding
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The Purdue University Literary Reading Series presents a reading with Pulitzer Prize-winning fiction writer Paul Harding at 7:30 p.m.
 on Oct. 22 in Krannert Auditorium, Room 140. The author of "Enon" and "Tinkers," which won the 2010 Pulitzer Prize for fiction, also will participate in a question and answer session at 4:30 p.m.
 on Oct. 22 in Stewart Center, Room 320. Both events, sponsored by the Department of English and the Creative Writing Program, are free and open to the public.
 Harding is a graduate of the University of Massachusetts, and he was a drummer for the band Cold Water Flat before earning his MFA from the Iowa Writers' Workshop.
 He has received a Guggenheim Fellowship and was a fiction fellow at the Fine Arts Center in Provincetown. Source: Rebecca McKanna, Visiting Writers Series coordinator, 319-400-9163, 
rmckanna@purdue.edu Department of English</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/financial-aid-presentations-to-offer-information-for-students,-parents.html
<Content> Financial aid presentations to offer information for students, parents
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - High school students and their families can learn about college financial aid during either of two upcoming presentations by 
Purdue University's Division of Financial Aid and the Ivy Tech Community College Lafayette financial aid office. The presentations will be offered at 6:30 p.m.
 Dec. 11 and Jan. 16 at the Ivy Tech Community College, Ivy Hall Auditorium, 3101 S. Creasy Lane, Lafayette. The Indiana Student Financial Aid Association
 is sponsoring the presentations. Each program will begin with a short overview of financial aid basics, and then attendees will hear detailed information about filing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).
 Families also may attend College Goal Sunday on Feb. 24 at Ivy Tech Community College. Starting at 2 p.m., financial aid counselors will be available to help students complete their FAFSA and to answer any additional financial aid questions that they might have.
 See http://www.collegegoalsunday.org/ for more information and a list of all participating locations. For additional information, contact David Reseigh, Indiana Student Financial Aid Association regional coordinator and Purdue's Division of Financial Aid assistant director of outreach services, at 765-496-3919, 
dlreseigh@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/financial-aid-programs-to-offer-help-to-students,-families.html
<Content> Financial aid programs to offer help to students, families
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - High school students and their families can learn about college financial aid during a program by Purdue University's Division of Financial Aid
 and the Ivy Tech Community College Lafayette financial aid office. The presentation will be at 6:30 p.m. Wednesday (Jan. 16) at Ivy Tech Community College's Ivy Hall Auditorium, 3101 S.
 Creasy Lane, Lafayette. The Indiana Student Financial Aid Association is sponsoring the presentation. The program will begin with a short overview of financial aid basics, and then attendees will hear detailed information about filing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).
 Families also may attend College Goal Sunday on Feb. 24. Starting at 2 p.m., financial aid counselors will be available at Ivy Tech's Ivy Hall to answer any financial aid questions that families might have and to help students complete and file their FAFSA.
 For additional information and a list of all participating locations see http://www.collegegoalsunday.org/ For more information, contact David Reseigh, Indiana Student Financial Aid Association regional coordinator and Purdue's Division of Financial Aid assistant director of outreach services, at 765-496-3919, 
dlreseigh@purdue.edu. Source: David L. Reseigh, 765-496-3919, dlreseigh@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/financial-analyst-meredith-whitney-to-speak-at-purdue-on-nov.-14.html
<Content> Financial analyst Meredith Whitney to speak at Purdue on Nov. 14
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Meredith Whitney, a financial analyst widely acknowledged for her work and identification of issues surrounding the mortgage and credit issues that hobbled the economy, will speak Nov.
 14 at Purdue University. "Conversation with Meredith Whitney" is free and open to the public and will begin at 7 p.m. in Stewart Center's Fowler Hall.
 The event is presented by Purdue University with support from Purdue Convocations. For the event, Whitney will be interviewed about her national attention-getting predictions on housing prices, the mortgage industry and the recent financial crisis, as well as her perspectives on factors that will influence the country's economy in the years ahead.
 There also will be an opportunity for Whitney to address questions from the audience. The founder and CEO of Meredith Whitney Advisory Group
, an independent financial services advisory firm based in New York City, Whitney also is author of the book "Fate of the States: The New Geography of American Prosperity.
" She is a frequent contributor to CNBC, Fox Business and Bloomberg news programs. Whitney in 2006 presented to the FDIC on risks in the sub-prime market and in 2007 made a dire projection that Citibank was undercapitalized and would have to cut its dividends or sell assets to raise capital.
 That projection set off a one-day $400 billion drop in the markets, according to Whitney's website, and helped firmly establish her as a powerful voice in the financial industry.
 She has now focused on the U.S. recovery and is using her expertise to "identify what she believes will be the next American super-cycle of economic growth and investment opportunity.
" Whitney was previously a managing director and senior financial institutions analyst for Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. A graduate with honors from Brown University, she was selected as one of the 50 most powerful women by Fortune and by Time as one of the 100 most influential people.
 Media contact: Abby Eddy, Purdue Convocations director of marketing, 765-494-9712, aeeddy@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/financial-analyst-meredith-whitney-to-speak-at-purdue-on-nov.-14.html
<Content> Financial analyst Meredith Whitney to speak at Purdue on Nov. 14
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Meredith Whitney, a financial analyst widely acknowledged for her work and identification of issues surrounding the mortgage and credit issues that hobbled the economy, will speak Nov.
 14 at Purdue University. "Conversation with Meredith Whitney" is free and open to the public and will begin at 7 p.m. in Stewart Center's Fowler Hall.
 The event is presented by Purdue University with support from Purdue Convocations. For the event, Whitney will be interviewed about her national attention-getting predictions on housing prices, the mortgage industry and the recent financial crisis, as well as her perspectives on factors that will influence the country's economy in the years ahead.
 There also will be an opportunity for Whitney to address questions from the audience. The founder and CEO of Meredith Whitney Advisory Group
, an independent financial services advisory firm based in New York City, Whitney also is author of the book "Fate of the States: The New Geography of American Prosperity.
" She is a frequent contributor to CNBC, Fox Business and Bloomberg news programs. Whitney in 2006 presented to the FDIC on risks in the sub-prime market and in 2007 made a dire projection that Citibank was undercapitalized and would have to cut its dividends or sell assets to raise capital.
 That projection set off a one-day $400 billion drop in the markets, according to Whitney's website, and helped firmly establish her as a powerful voice in the financial industry.
 She has now focused on the U.S. recovery and is using her expertise to "identify what she believes will be the next American super-cycle of economic growth and investment opportunity.
" Whitney was previously a managing director and senior financial institutions analyst for Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. A graduate with honors from Brown University, she was selected as one of the 50 most powerful women by Fortune and by Time as one of the 100 most influential people.
 Media contact: Abby Eddy, Purdue Convocations director of marketing, 765-494-9712, aeeddy@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/financial-analyst-meredith-whitney-to-speak-at-purdue-on-nov.-14.html
<Content> Financial analyst Meredith Whitney to speak at Purdue on Nov. 14
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Meredith Whitney, a financial analyst widely acknowledged for her work and identification of issues surrounding the mortgage and credit issues that hobbled the economy, will speak Nov.
 14 at Purdue University. "Conversation with Meredith Whitney" is free and open to the public and will begin at 7 p.m. in Stewart Center's Fowler Hall.
 The event is presented by Purdue University with support from Purdue Convocations. For the event, Whitney will be interviewed about her national attention-getting predictions on housing prices, the mortgage industry and the recent financial crisis, as well as her perspectives on factors that will influence the country's economy in the years ahead.
 There also will be an opportunity for Whitney to address questions from the audience. The founder and CEO of Meredith Whitney Advisory Group
, an independent financial services advisory firm based in New York City, Whitney also is author of the book "Fate of the States: The New Geography of American Prosperity.
" She is a frequent contributor to CNBC, Fox Business and Bloomberg news programs. Whitney in 2006 presented to the FDIC on risks in the sub-prime market and in 2007 made a dire projection that Citibank was undercapitalized and would have to cut its dividends or sell assets to raise capital.
 That projection set off a one-day $400 billion drop in the markets, according to Whitney's website, and helped firmly establish her as a powerful voice in the financial industry.
 She has now focused on the U.S. recovery and is using her expertise to "identify what she believes will be the next American super-cycle of economic growth and investment opportunity.
" Whitney was previously a managing director and senior financial institutions analyst for Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. A graduate with honors from Brown University, she was selected as one of the 50 most powerful women by Fortune and by Time as one of the 100 most influential people.
 Media contact: Abby Eddy, Purdue Convocations director of marketing, 765-494-9712, aeeddy@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/findings-to-help-in-design-of-drugs-against-virus-causing-childhood-illnesses.html
<Content> Findings to help in design of drugs against virus causing childhood illnesses
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - New research findings may help scientists design drugs to treat a virus infection that causes potentially fatal brain swelling and paralysis in children.
 The virus, called enterovirus 71, causes hand, foot and mouth disease and is common throughout the world. Although that disease usually is not fatal, the virus has been reported to cause fatal encephalitis in infants and young children, primarily in the Asia-Pacific region.
 New findings show the precise structure of the virus bound to a molecule that inhibits infection. The findings are detailed in a paper appearing this week in 
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. "These results provide a structural basis for development of drugs to fight enterovirus 71 infection," said 
Michael G. Rossmann, Purdue University's Hanley Distinguished Professor of Biological Sciences. Rossmann is co-author of a paper with Purdue postdoctoral research associate Pavel Plevka; research scientist Rushika Perera; postdoctoral research associate Moh Lan Yap; Jane Cardosa, a researcher at Sentinext Therapeutics in Malaysia; and Richard J.
 Kuhn, a professor and head of Purdue's Department of Biological Sciences. The researchers had previously used a technique called X-ray crystallography to determine the virus's precise structure.
 A small molecule called a "pocket factor" is located within a pocket of the virus's protective shell, called the capsid. When the virus binds to a human cell, the pocket factor is squeezed out of its pocket resulting in the destabilization of the virus particle, which then disintegrates and releases its genetic material to infect the cell and replicate.
 Researchers led by Rossmann have developed antiviral drugs for other enteroviruses such as rhinoviruses that cause the common cold.
 The drugs work by replacing the pocket factor with a molecule that binds more tightly than the real pocket factor, inhibiting infection.
 In the new work, the researchers obtained a near-atomic-scale resolution three-dimensional structure of enterovirus 71 binding with an inhibitor called WIN 51711.
 "We show that the compound stabilizes the virus and limits its infectivity, probably through restricting dynamics of the capsid necessary for genome release," Rossmann said.
 "Our results provide a structural basis for development of antienterovirus 71 capsid-binding drugs." Hand, foot and mouth disease, an infection most common among young children, sometimes arises in a daycare setting.
 Of the 427,278 cases of the disease recorded in mainland China between January and May 2010, 5,454 cases were classified as severe, with 260 deaths, according to the World Health Organization.
 The research was supported by the National Institutes of Health and the U.S. Department of Energy. Note to Journalists: A copy of the research paper is available from Emil Venere, Purdue News Service, at 765-494-4709, 
venere@purdue.edu Pavel Plevkaa,1, Rushika Pereraa,1, Moh Lan Yapa Jane Cardosab, Richard J. Kuhna, and Michael G. Rossmanna* Human enterovirus 71 is a picornavirus causing hand, foot and mouth disease that may progress to fatal encephalitis in infants and small children.
 As of now, no cure is available for enterovirus 71 infections. Small molecule inhibitors binding into a hydrophobic pocket within capsid viral protein 1 were previously shown to effectively limit infectivity of many picornaviruses.
 Here we report a 3.2-Å-resolution X-ray structure of the enterovirus 71 virion complexed with the capsid-binding inhibitor WIN 51711.
 The inhibitor replaced the natural pocket factor within the viral protein 1 pocket without inducing any detectable rearrangements in the structure of the capsid.
 Furthermore, we show that the compound stabilizes enterovirus 71 virions and limits its infectivity, probably through restricting dynamics of the capsid necessary for genome release.
 Thus, our results provide a structural basis for development of antienterovirus 71 capsid-binding drugs. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/fire-units-respond-to-fire-at-fraternity-house.html
<Content> Fire units respond to fire at fraternity house
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Purdue University's fire department responded Saturday (April 27) morning to a fire atthe Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity, at 1051 David Ross Road, near campus.
 Purdue firefighters responded toan active fire alarm at about 6:30 a.m. and discovered the blaze in the Chapter Room, which is an attachment to the main building.
 Building occupants evacuatedupon hearing the alarm, and the fire was extinguished without further incident.Purdue fire chief Kevin Ply said the fire's cause was determined to be accidental by the Indiana State Fire Marshal's office.
 The room was heavily damaged by fire, and smoke spread to the main building. Ply said 17 residents will be placed in Purdue Village housing during the one week remaining in the academic term.
 The Office of the Dean of Students is working with the students to provide additional services. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/firms-new-services-hold-promise-to-improve-efficiency-for-telecommunications-clients.html
<Content> Firm's new services hold promise to improve efficiency for telecommunications clients
 MERRILLVILLE, Ind. - Executives in the cellular communication industry could benefit from a Purdue Research Park-based firm's services that quantify how efficiently telecommunications systems utilize and deliver power.
 Alternative Housing Solutions LLC, located in the Purdue Research Park of Northwest Indiana, offers installation support, commission and integration consultation, and efficiency management to its corporate clients.
 Co-founder Kevin Ruth said clients could see long-term benefits. "The challenges they face may be imperceptible at first, but smart design and a focus on efficiency at transceiver stations will translate to verifiable savings as cell site modernization continues," he said.
 "Our services ensure that our clients' systems are installed in the most efficient manner, operating within clearly defined parameters to maximize the power signature.
" Ruth and his colleagues at Alternative Housing Solutions have almost 20 years of experience in the electrical and mechanical fields.
 "A considerable amount of expertise lies in our ability to determine client needs and system functionality," he said. "We have the ability to perform at a high level in this area.
" "Our initial business plan had us on course for energy management in residential and light commercial sectors. We had no plans to move into data centers or telecommunications infrastructure energy management," he said.
 "As we looked at the energy consulting landscape, we saw that most of the action was occurring at the corporate infrastructure level.
 We look forward to establishing ourselves as a respected entrant into an evolving field." Alternative Housing Solutions offers assistance from energy management consultants and certified energy auditors, guided by the goal of providing better building performance solutions for homes and businesses.
 The company helps individuals and company owners gain an understanding of what it means to be "green" and show them how to leverage the opportunities available when seeking a more environmentally friendly approach to living and conducting business.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/five-purdue-innovations-receive-more-than-200,000-from-trask-innovation-fund.html
<Content> Five Purdue innovations receive more than $200,000 from Trask Innovation Fund
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue researchers received more than $200,000 through the Trask Innovation Fund to help commercialize their innovations in the fields of chemistry, engineering, and speech, language and hearing sciences.
 The Purdue Research Foundation-managed Trask Innovation Fund is a development program to assist faculty and staff whose discoveries are being commercialized through the Purdue 
Office of Technology Commercialization. Corey Neu, assistant professor in Purdue University's College of Engineering, received $50,000 to support "Critical Advancement to a New AFM/NMR Instrument.
" His innovation allows researchers to better understand cell movement and physical and chemical properties at a single-cell level.
 "We will be able to build a new kind of microscope system and generate data using the system that is essential to help commercialize the technology," he said.
 * "Metamaterial Sound Insulation Panels," Thomas Siegmund, professor in the College of Engineering, $33,626. The technology can be used to fabricate materials that control, direct and manipulate sound in various applications including aerospace, automotive and civil.
 * "Wireless Positioning and Tracking Technology for Indoor Location Based Services," Byunghoo Jung, associate professor in the College of Engineering, $49,548.
 This technology shows promise for an automated positioning and tracking system for indoor and outdoor applications with substantially higher resolution than GPS-style positioning systems.
 * "Development of SPEAK more! A Language Training App for Individuals with Severe Autism," Oliver Wendt, assistant professor in the 
College of Health and Human Sciences, $50,000. The technology shows promise in helping individuals affected by severe, non-verbal autism to foster more robust communication with their families and others.
 * "Fast Spectroscopy Imaging by Parallel-detection of Stimulated Raman Scattering," Ji-Xin Cheng, associate professor in the College of Science
, $50,000. The technology will allow researchers, clinicians or pathologists to look at live biological samples, without labeling, in real-time.
 Dan Hasler, president of Purdue Research Foundation and chief entrepreneurial officer at Purdue University, said the university's culture of innovation impacts the globe.
 "Faculty, staff and students and their dedication to improving the world are at the center of Purdue's environment of innovation," he said.
 "The researchers who earned Trask Innovation Fund awards are developing work that represents just a fraction of the life-changing ideas from Purdue that could lead to longer, healthier, happier and more productive lives.
" The next proposal submissions from Purdue faculty and staff for the Trask Innovation Fund will be due Sept. 13. Information about submissions is available at 
http://otc-prf.org/node/337. The Trask Advisory Council will meet Oct. 25. Purdue University has nearly 500 technologies available for licensing through the Office of Technology Commercialization.
 For more information, call 765-588-3341. The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 Source: Elizabeth Hart-Wells, Office of Technology Commercialization, 765-588-3473, eahart-wells@prf.org </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/focus-on-color-means-white-veggies-dropped-like-a-hot-potato.html
<Content> Focus on color means white veggies dropped like a hot potato
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Colorful vegetables are promoted as key to a healthy diet, but white vegetables, especially potatoes, shouldn't be forgotten, according to a Purdue University expert.
 "Potatoes are a great source for potassium, and only 3 percent of American adults consume the recommended daily intake for this mineral that's essential to healthy blood pressure," says 
Connie Weaver, distinguished professor of nutrition science. "Potatoes are often discounted from being healthy because of how they are cooked, topped or the amount consumed, but, when prepared in a healthy way, potatoes are nutritious.
 People need to remember that white veggies have a place at the table, too." In addition to potatoes, other white vegetables often neglected are cauliflower, turnips, onions, parsnips, mushrooms, corn and kohlrabi.
 These vegetables, and related topics such as ambiguity regarding classification of white vegetables and limitations of color as measure of nutritional content, are published this month in the 
Advances in Nutrition journal supplement, "White Vegetables: An Forgotten Source of Nutrients." The journal is published by the American Society for Nutrition and highlights research reviews in the field.
 Weaver is editor of the journal supplement on white vegetables, and she served as chair for the June 2012 white vegetables roundtable.
 The roundtable was funded by the Alliance for Potato Research and Education. "It's recommended that the variety of fruits and vegetables consumed daily should include dark green and orange vegetables, but no such recommendation exists for white vegetables, even though they are rich in fiber, potassium and magnesium," Weaver says.
 "Overall, Americans are not eating enough vegetables, and promoting white vegetables, some of which are common and affordable, may be a pathway to increasing vegetable consumption in general.
" The daily recommendation is 4.5 cups of fruits and vegetables in a 2,000-calorie diet, but Americans consume less than half of that, or about 1.8 cups.
 In 2004 the adequate intake for potassium was set at 4,700 milligrams a day, but the average adult intake is about half that amount.
 Potassium is one four nutrients identified by the Dietary Guidelines for Americans as lacking in daily diets. "Western diets have led to a decrease in potassium with fewer fruits and vegetables, and at the same time, there's been an increase in sodium consumption because people eat more processed foods," says Weaver, who is an expert in mineral bioavailability, calcium metabolism and bone health.
 While potatoes are one of the highest sources of dietary potassium, when processed, they are often higher in salt. While potassium improves blood flow, too much salt increases blood pressure, making the vascular system work harder.
 "The relationship between potassium and sodium is interesting because how the two work together may influence risk of cardiovascular disease," Weaver says.
 "The human body needs both, but today's problem is sodium consumption is up and potassium is down. Because potassium-to-sodium intake ratios are more strongly related to cardiovascular disease risk than either nutrient alone, more research is needed to understand this relationship.
" Potassium also shows signs of supporting bone health and reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease and stroke, as well as protecting against age-related bone loss and reducing kidney stones, but more research also is needed in these areas, Weaver says.
 Weaver is a member of the Institute of Medicine, which is the health arm of the National Academy of Sciences, and she is deputy director of the National Institutes of Health-funded Indiana Clinical and Translational Science Institute.
 In 2011 she was appointed to the Institute of Medicine's Food and Nutrition Board, and in 2005 she was appointed to the U.S. Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee, and she served on the National Academy of Sciences Food and Nutrition Board Panel to develop new requirement recommendations for calcium and related minerals.
 The executive summary, by Weaver and Elizabeth T. Marr, a consultant to the Alliance for Potato Research and Education, for the "White Vegetables: An Forgotten Source of Nutrients" supplement is available at 
http://advances.nutrition.org/content/4/3#SupplementWhiteVegetablesAForgottenSourceofNutrients Note to Journalists: A copy of Connie Weaver's 
Advances in Nutrition article is available at http://asn-cdn-remembers.s3.amazonaws.com/73b1b176eeedd16e40e4dec571785cc8.pdf Potassium was identified as a shortfall nutrient by the Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2010 advisory committee.
 The committee concluded that there was a moderate body of evidence for the association between potassium intake and blood pressure reduction in adults, which, in turn, influences of risk of stroke and coronary heart disease.
 Evidence is also accumulating for the protective effect of adequate dietary potassium on age-related bone loss and on reduction of kidney stones.
 These benefits depend on organic anions associated with potassium as occurs in foods, such as vegetables, in contrast to similar blood pressure lowering benefits of potassium chloride.
 Benefits to blood pressure and bone health may occur at levels below current recommendations for potassium intake, especially from diet, but dose response trials are needed to conform to this.
 Nevertheless, intakes considerably above current levels are needed for optimal health, and studies evaluating small increases in fruit and vegetable intake on bone and heart outcomes for short periods have had disappointing results.
 In modern societies, Western diets have led to a decrease in potassium intake with reduced consumption of fruits and vegetables with a concomitant increase in sodium consumption through increased consumption of processed foods.
 Consumption of white vegetables is associated with decreased risk of stroke, possibly related to their high potassium content. Potatoes are the highest source of dietary potassium but addition of salt should be limited.
 Low potassium to sodium intake ratios are more strongly related to cardiovascular disease risk than either nutrient alone. This relationship deserves further attention for multiple target tissue end points.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/forage-production-for-biomass-energy-to-be-showcased-at-workshop.html
<Content> Forage production for biomass energy to be showcased at workshop
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Growing plants for fuel in Indiana will be the focus of an Oct. 15 Purdue Extension workshop targeted to those interested in biomass energy production.
 Biomass energy is the use of organic materials, such as grasses, grains, crop residues or livestock waste that can be converted to a source of fuel.
 The daylong workshop will focus on grasses that can be grown on land that isn't well suited for row-crop production. "Indiana is a place where about 15 percent of the arable soil is considered marginal for corn and soybean production," said Chad Martin, Purdue Extension renewable energy specialist.
 "These less productive soils can be used for bioenergy grass production." Land could be considered marginal for many reasons, such as problems with water-holding capacity, depth of soil or soil composition - any of which means less yield and profit for farmers growing crops like corn or soybean.
 The morning program will give participants an opportunity to see engines that run on alternative fuels at Caterpillar Inc., 3701 State Route 26 E.
, Lafayette. The session will include presentations by energy professionals and a facilities tour. The afternoon session will focus specifically on plants that can be grown for biomass energy production.
 It will run 1:30-4:30 p.m. at the Throckmorton-Purdue Agricultural Center, 8343 U.S. 231, Lafayette. Keith Johnson, Purdue Extension forage specialist who is heading up the afternoon session, said forage grasses tend to come closer to optimum production on marginal land as compared to corn or soybean.
 They reduce soil erosion and water runoff, improve soil quality, provide a natural habitat for wildlife and yield high amounts of biomass.
 "The grasses we're focusing on are big bluestem, Indiangrass and switchgrass, which are all native, warm-season perennial grasses," he said.
 "Non-native grasses that a core group of researchers are looking at include Miscanthus and sorghum." Register in advance for the afternoon session by contacting Lisa Green at 
lgreen06@purdue.edu or 765-494-4783. Johnson and Martin are part of a multistate working group called cenUSA Bioenergy that is researching ways to create a sustainable biofuels system for the central United States.
 Purdue University is one of the eight institutions involved in the effort, which is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
 More information can be found at http://www.cenusa.iastate.edu/. CenUSA, Caterpillar Inc. and Purdue Extension are sponsoring the workshop.
 Research is supported by the USDA's National Institute of Food and Agriculture and the U.S. Department of Energy. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/formula-will-help-when-estimating-soybean-yield-potential.html
<Content> Formula will help when estimating soybean yield potential
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Soybean producers can easily get an idea of the yield potential of their crops with a Purdue Extension soybean specialist's calculation method.
 Soybean yield potential is built on many factors, including the genetics selected, management decisions during the season and the weather.
 Yield components of soybeans are pods, seed size and number of seeds per pod. "Individual plant production varies, and every field will vary based on pests, soils, fertility and other factors," said Shaun Casteel.
 "But I've simplified the process of estimating soybean yields so that producers can scout multiple areas quickly while maintaining representative estimates.
" Casteel's system is based on estimated yield in one ten-thousandth of an acre. The basic formula involves multiplying the number of pods by the number of seeds per pod, then dividing that result by the seed size factor.
 That calculation will show the estimated bushels per acre. To calculate, producers first need to count the number of pods in one ten-thousandth of an acre, an area determined by a 21-inch length of a row of plants and how far apart the rows were planted.
 "Nearly 90 percent of our Indiana soybean acres are planted in 30-, 15- or 7.5-inch rows, so just remember that each count needs to be 21 inches long," Casteel said.
 "You will count the number of pods in one row for 30-inch width, two rows for 15-inch and four rows for 7.5-inch." Producers should count the number of pods that are at stage R5 or higher - when they can see seeds.
 Next, they must determine the number of seeds per pod. Casteel said using the average of 2.5 seeds per pod is best because there can be a range of 1-4 seeds per pod.
 "This value is conservative since we don't know exactly how the rest of the season will finish," Casteel said. The third step is to calculate seed size factor.
 Casteel said the starting point is seed size factor 18, equaling about 3,000 seeds per pound. "If you expect larger seeds from late-season rains, you would divide by a lower seed size factor such as 15, which equals about 2,500 seeds per pound," he said.
 "If the field has late-season stress, such as a lack of water, you would divide by a higher seed size factor like 21, or 3,500 seeds per pound.
" The three values – number of pods in stage R5 or higher, number of seeds per pod and seed size factor - go into Casteel's equation.
 For example, 250 pods times 2.5 seeds per pod divided by a seed size factor 15 equals 41.7 bushels per acre. Fair soybean growth with limited pod retention but with good late-season moisture will result in a fair crop.
 Although producers can start estimating yields as soybeans enter the R5 stage, the estimates will be more accurate as soybeans develop and enter R6, or full seed.
 If soybeans are just coming into R6, Casteel said the yield potential still depends on pod retention and seed size. The weather is an important contributor to yield potential, and dry conditions over the past 4-5 weeks have lowered yield potential in some fields.
 "Reductions in excessive heat and the return of rain helped yield potentials more in seed size than pod retention assuming the soybeans are into R6 and beginning to drop leaves," Casteel said.
 "If fields are green, soybean yield potentials could improve. If fields are losing foliage, yield gains will be very limited." </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/free-app-offers-accessible-way-to-identify-plant-problems.html
<Content> Free app offers accessible way to identify plant problems
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Farmers, homeowners, greenhouse and nursery growers, agricultural specialists and others who need to identify plants, plant diseases, insect pests and other plant problems have a new mobile application resource created by eight university labs, including Purdue's Plant and Pest Diagnostic Laboratory.
 The Plant Diagnostic Sample Submission app includes submission forms with customized questions about agronomic crops, weeds, vegetables, houseplants and more.
 It was developed by IN3 (http://www.in3applications.com), located in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette. "The app is for anyone who wants to send a sample, said Tom Creswell, PPDL director.
 "It guides users through the right questions for their submissions." It allows users to take and send digital photos and plant-problem descriptions to any of the eight participating labs.
 The university diagnostic labs involved are Alabama Cooperative Extension, University of Connecticut, University of Illinois Extension, University of Kentucky, Michigan State University, University of New Hampshire and Ohio State University.
 When submitting samples, users answer questions about the specific types of plant problems they need to identify, such as farm, household or lawn.
 "If you're sending a sample from your home lawn, the form will contain questions specific to turf and lawn," Creswell said. "But there's a different set of questions if your plant submission is vegetable- or greenhouse-related.
" Submissions are sent to the labs using the iPhone or iPad built-in mail app, which requires an email account on the device. PPDL will charge normal sample-handling fees for samples submitted through the app.
 Those fees are $11 for Indiana samples and $22 for out-of-state submissions. However, if a physical sample is needed as a follow-up, there is no additional fee.
 Each of the other diagnostic labs has specific fee policies, so users should check with their preferred lab for details. The PPDL accepts submissions from the 48 contiguous states.
 International submissions are not accepted. Right now Kentucky and New Hampshire laboratories will only accept samples via the app from Extension educators and specialists who have a proper passcode.
 The app is available for free download in the iTunes store. For more information, visit http://www.ppdl.purdue.edu/PPDL/hot13/8-12.html
. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/free-flu-shots-available-at-center-for-healthy-living-in-october-and-november.html
<Content> Free flu shots available at Center for Healthy Living in October and November
 The Center for Healthy Living is providing free flu shots by appointment for all benefits-eligible employees, plus spouses/same-sex domestic partners (SSDPs) who are covered on a Purdue medical plan.
 Appointments are available from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. on Thursdays and Fridays, Oct. 4 through Nov. 8. To schedule, eligible individuals should call the center at 49-40111.
 The Center for Healthy Living is located in the Purdue West Shopping Center at 1400 W. State St. Free parking is available, and no permit is needed.
 The center does not provide flu shots for children. However, employees, spouses/SSDPs and children who are covered on a Purdue medical plan have two ways to get a free flu shot aside from going to the Center for Healthy Living.
 * Go to a retail pharmacy: A list of covered locations is available at www.purdue.edu/hr/Benefits/Medical/fluShots.html. Those getting a flu shot through a retail location will need to show their Cigna ID card.
 * Go to their health care provider: All Purdue medical plans cover seasonal flu shots for covered employees and family members. Employees who have questions about flu shot coverage may contact Human Resources at 49-42222 or 
hr@purdue.edu.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/free-workshop-on-navigating-fda-and-other-federal-regulatory-pathways-offered.html
<Content> Free workshop on navigating FDA and other federal regulatory pathways offered
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization is offering a free workshop on navigating the complex regulatory requirements for patenting and protecting intellectual property in the pharmaceutical drug and medical device sectors.
 The program will be held Wednesday (March 27) from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in the Herman and Heddy Kurz Purdue Technology Center, 1281 Win Hentschel Blvd.
 West Lafayette. Officials from Roche Diagnostics Operations Inc., Eli Lilly and Co. and Endocyte Inc. will lead a roundtable discussion on best practices for remaining apprised of continuing changes in the federal requirements to move medicinal and medical treatments through the commercialization process and to the public.
 * Philip Low, chief science officer, Endocyte, and the Ralph C. Corley Distinguished Professor of Chemistry at Purdue University.
 The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 In calendar year 2011, Purdue Research Foundation's Office of Technology Commercialization reported 268 invention disclosures, 64 deals finalized, 57 issued U.S.
 patents, 344 global patents and gross royalty income at $5.8 million. The foundation also reported the creation of nine startup companies in 2011 founded on Purdue innovations.
 Source: Hamid Piroozi, HRPiroozi@prf.org</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/friends-of-extension-recognized-for-their-service-to-4-h.html
<Content> Friends of Extension recognized for their service to 4-H
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - John and Carolyn Beck of Boone County and the program manager and staff of Shakamak State Park in Greene and Sullivan counties have been chosen as the 2013 Friends of Extension for their longstanding service to 4-H.
 The awards by the Indiana Extension Educators Association were given Thursday (Nov. 7) during a luncheon at Purdue Extension's annual conference at Purdue University.
 John (Wes) Beck was honored at the Indiana State Fair this year for completing 42 years of service to 4-H clubs, which includes membership on the Boone County Extension Board, the 4-H Board and 4-H Council.
 He also has spent the past several years serving as a state fair judge for geology and a county judge across the state for geology, forestry, wildlife and genealogy, among others.
 Carolyn Beck's volunteer work includes having a key role in designing and implementing the 4-H Microwave Cooking project in Boone County in the late 1980s and serving as the microwave cooking leader for about eight years.
 She was a co-leader of Fashion Revue in Boone County for eight years with daughter Marsha and assisted son Matthew as a junior leader adviser for several years.
 The Becks were instrumental in a recent campaign that raised $1.2 million in private donations to accompany the $2.5 million in county government funds that resulted in a renovation of the Boone County 4-H Fairgrounds.
 They were selected to the Boone County 4-H Hall of Fame and were awarded the honor of Boone County Friends of Extension. "John Wesley and Carolyn Kincaid Beck have made 4-H the cornerstone of their lives," said a nomination letter by Tony Carrell, Purdue Extension youth development program specialist, and the Boone County Extension Office.
 "Their heads, hearts, hands and health have served Boone County and the state of Indiana throughout the years. Collectively, the couple has given 76 years as 4-H volunteers.
" Shakamak State Park, near Jasonville, has been home to 4-H camps since 1931. The West Central Camping Association has convened at the park for 4-H camps each year since then.
 Park Manager Robb Hogg "is attentive to details that affect our campers and works to resolve problems quickly," Rena Sheldon, association president, said in a nominating letter.
 Sheldon also praised Hogg for giving the group first choice of dates each year and for providing excellent value for the 4-H camp.
 In addition, the association in 2008 was granted permission to put a storage shed at the park, saving the group about $500 annually in storage costs.
 During a renovation, crews worked overtime to finish before 4-H camp began, Sheldon said. When a camp group was needed to participate in the dedication ceremonies with then-Lt.
 Gov. Becky Skillman, Hogg and his staff chose the 4-H campers to represent the tens of thousands of youth who had camped there since 1931.
 "This was a special day for the 250 youth who watched history being made at Shakamak," Sheldon said. "He and Shakamak property managers of the past have worked to build a solid partnership with 4-H campers and educators that has endured and allowed youth to grow and learn in an affordable hands-on environment for over 80 years.
" Note to journalists: Photos of the award recipients will be available at http://www.ag.purdue.edu/extension/awards/. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/ge-digital-energy-executive-to-deliver-discovery-lecture-on-developing-electricity-system-collaborations.html
<Content> GE Digital Energy executive to deliver Discovery Lecture on developing electricity system collaborations
 GE Digital Energy executive to deliver Discovery Lecture on developing electricity system collaborations WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A leading international smart grid expert at GE Digital Energy who received the 2009 Outstanding Electrical and Computer Engineer award from Purdue University will deliver a 
Discovery Lecture at a campus workshop Aug. 28-29 in Discovery Park. The keynote by John McDonald, director of Technology Strategy and Policy Development for GE Digital Energy, is titled "Smart Grid: Concepts, Standards, Deployments and Lessons Learned.
" The talk is at 8:15 a.m. Aug. 28 in the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, Room 121. The lecture, which is free and open to the public, coincides with a free two-day smart grid research workshop, sponsored by the 
Cyber and Energy centers in Discovery Park, Purdue University Calumet, and the Purdue colleges of Engineering, Health and Human Sciences, Science and Technology.
 The workshop is titled "Building Research Collaborations: Electricity Systems." "John McDonald has worked his entire career building a smarter grid, leading this nation's efforts in developing an infrastructure that will power our planet for generations to come," said Joseph Pekny, a Purdue professor of chemical engineering and interim director of the Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship. "As a Purdue alum, we're proud of the role John has played as a pioneer in the electricity industry and the next-generation knowledge he will bring to campus to share as part of our Discovery Lecture Series.
" Through a $1 million gift to Discovery Park from the Indianapolis-based Lilly Endowment, Purdue launched the Discovery Lecture Series in 2006 to bring prominent speakers to campus.
 Smart grid refers to a class of technology used to deliver electricity through computer-based remote control and automation. The systems are made possible by two-way communication technology and computer processing, which allows the electric grid to operate more efficiently and respond effectively to sudden changes in supply or demand.
 "The purpose of the talk and the workshop is to familiarize participants with smart grid concepts and solutions, including distribution, transmission, and asset and demand optimization," said Andrew Liu, an assistant professor of industrial engineering at Purdue.
 Pankaj Sharma, managing director of the Purdue Energy Center, said the workshop will include technical presentation and discussion on five topics related to electricity systems: security, data management/analytics, regional issues, workforce training and modeling/simulation/computing.
 "The goal is to build interdisciplinary research collaborations, identify capabilities and gaps and discuss strategies to address them," Sharma said.
 A poster session also is scheduled for the evening of Aug. 28. Posters presented by students will be judged for best presentation awards.
 To register for the research workshop, visit https://purdue.qualtrics.com/SE/?SID=SV_884yju3mRVRr51H. During his 39-year career in the electric utility industry, McDonald has developed power application software for supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)/energy management system (EMS) and SCADA/distribution management system applications.
 He also has developed distribution automation and load management systems, managed SCADA/EMS and SCADA/DMS projects and assisted suppliers in the automation of Intelligent Electronic Devices.
 In 2009, he was awarded the Outstanding Electrical and Computer Engineer award from Purdue, where McDonald received his bachelor's and master's degrees, specializing in power engineering.
 He received his MBA from the University of California, Berkeley. McDonald served on the board of the IEEE Standards Association in 2010-11, focusing on long-term IEEE smart grid standards global strategy, and was IEEE Power & Energy Society (PES) President in 2006-07.
 He is a member of Eta Kappa Nu (electrical engineering honorary) and Tau Beta Pi (engineering honorary), a Fellow of IEEE and was awarded the IEEE Millennium Medal in 2000, the IEEE PES Excellence in Power Distribution Engineering Award in 2002 and the IEEE PES Substations Committee Distinguished Service Award in 2003.
 In addition, he teaches a SCADA/EMS course at the Georgia Institute of Technology, a smart grid course for GE and substation automation, distribution SCADA and communications courses for various IEEE PES local chapters as an IEEE PES distinguished lecturer.
 He has published 60 papers. He is co-author of the book, "Automating a Distribution Cooperative, from A to Z," published by the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association Cooperative Research Network in 1999.
 He is editor-in-chief for the book "Electric Power Substations Engineering," third edition, published by Taylor & Francis/CRC Press in 2012.
 With 60,000 global employees and annual revenue of $40 billion, GE Energy is one of the world's leading suppliers of power generation and energy delivery technologies.
 Businesses that comprise GE Energy Management – GE Digital Energy, GE Power & Water, and GE Oil & Gas - work together to provide integrated product and service solutions in all areas of the energy industry including coal, oil, natural gas and nuclear energy; renewable resources such as water, wind, solar and biogas; and other alternative fuels.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/gettysburg,-civil-war-expert.html
<Content> Gettysburg, Civil War Expert
 Janney studies Civil War history and memory, and she is the author of "Remembering the Civil War: Reunion and the Limits of Reconciliation" and "Burying the Dead but Not the Past: Ladies' Memorial Associations and the Lost Cause.
" She can talk about the history, perception and memorialization of Gettysburg as a memorial site and how veterans really felt about the reenactments and anniversaries at this military park.
 She also is an expert in the role women, especially Ladies' Memorial Associations, played after the Civil War. Other topics she can discuss include the role race has played in memorializing the Civil War, and how Civil War images, references and cultural symbols are still celebrated and challenged.
 Note to Journalists: The 150th anniversary of the battle at Gettysburg, the largest battle fought during the war and considered by many of the veterans the most important, is this summer.
 Janney is one of the presenters for the Gettysburg Foundation and Gettysburg National Military Park Sacred Trust Talks on July 5.
 She will present "Returning to the Field of Glory: Veterans at Gettysburg" at 11:30 a.m. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/giant-molecules-win-purdue-professor-the-hamburg-prize-for-theoretical-physics.html
<Content> 'Giant' molecules win Purdue professor the Hamburg Prize for Theoretical Physics
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A Purdue University professor has won the 2013 Hamburg Prize for Theoretical Physics for his work on "giant" molecules.
 Chris Greene, a distinguished professor of physics, won the prize for his theory of an unusual binding mechanism in ultracold quantum gases and the existence of huge Rydberg molecules, electronically excited molecules that behave in unique ways and can exhibit exaggerated sizes.
 His prediction, published in 2000 with coauthors Alan Dickinson and Hossein Sadeghpour, helped to trigger the experimental discovery of these unusual Rydberg molecules in 2008.
 The prize, which is jointly awarded by Joachim Herz Stifung and the Hamburg Centre for Ultrafast Imaging (CUI), includes $53,444 and a research and teaching visit at the University of Hamburg.
 Greene will receive the award Nov. 14 during the annual CUI-Colloquium on the Science Campus Bahrenfeld in Hamburg. "In being awarded the four-year-old Hamburg Prize for Theoretical Physics, Chris joins a very elite group of physicists who have made fundamental contributions to our understanding of quantum systems," said Andrew Hirsch, interim head of the Department of Physics at Purdue.
 "His work in the field of atomic, molecular and optical physics places him at the very forefront of an area of physics that holds both great discovery and application potential.
" Rydberg molecules are a specially bound state of molecules made up of two or more atoms, like water. The atoms of these molecules can have unusually long-range interactions and be very far apart, making them "giant" by molecular standards.
 According to theory, the Rydberg version of a standard ice cube would weigh the same but be so large and airy that it would dwarf a football field.
 These molecules are of great research interest because they can be easily manipulated and could provide valuable insight into the properties and dynamics of atomic bonds.
 Understanding such fundamental physics is essential to developing methods for the control and manipulation of these systems that could lead to a wide variety of applications, Hirsch said.
 "The whole range of Chris Greene's studies, e.g. in the field of ultracold atom and electron collisions and on the process of molecule binding in an astrophysical context, is pioneering for theoretical physics.
 We are very much looking forward to his visit at CUI." The Hamburg Prize was established in 2010 by the cluster of excellence "Frontiers in Quantum Photon Science" at the University of Hamburg, which the Joachim Herz Stiftung supported.
 Today the prize is awarded jointly by the Joachim Herz Stiftung and the federal cluster of excellence "CUI" at the University of Hamburg.
 The Joachim Herz Stiftung promotes education, science and research in the fields of economics and business administration as well as in the natural sciences.
 The foundation was founded in 2008. Additional media contact: Mirko Zapp, Joachim Herz Stiftun Head of PR and Communications, +49 40 533295-46, 
mzapp@joachim-herz-stiftung.de Joachim Herz Stiftun press release: http://www.cui.uni-hamburg.de/en/2013/08/science-award-40000-euro-for-pioneering-research-in-theoretical-physics/
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/gift-to-fund-purdue-institute-for-civic-communication.html
<Content> Gift to fund Purdue Institute for Civic Communication
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A $1 million gift from the Denver-based Daniels Fund will support the new Purdue Institute for Civic Communication for four years.
 PICC, housed in the Brian Lamb School of Communication in the university's College of Liberal Arts, is an outgrowth of Project Impact, founded in 2010 to provide students with a mix of activities and forums to cultivate national dialogues on non-partisan issues.
 Project Impact was founded by Carolyn Curiel, a clinical professor of communication and former journalist, senior White House aide and U.S.
 ambassador. Brian Lamb, founder and executive chairman of C-SPAN and a Purdue alumnus, has been her chief collaborator. "The Purdue Institute for Civic Communication will prepare our students to be leaders in their communities and beyond," said Purdue President Mitch Daniels.
 "It is an excellent addition to their career studies." The Daniels Fund was started by Bill Daniels, a pioneer in cable television.
 Bill Daniels (no relation to Mitch Daniels) founded his first cable business in Casper, Wyo., in 1953. He eventually owned and operated hundreds of cable TV systems across the country.
 The firm he founded - Daniels & Associates (now RBC Daniels) - provides investment-banking services to media and technology companies.
 When Bill Daniels died in 2000, his estate transferred to the Daniels Fund, which provides grants to nonprofit organizations and college scholarships to students in Colorado, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming, as well as supporting programs with a national impact.
 "We are fortunate and honored that the Daniels Fund has chosen to help PICC build on Project Impact's momentum to make an even broader mark on the futures of its student participants," Curiel said.
 "We feel certain that a civic engagement program that develops in young people a fuller appreciation for the American system and ideals fulfills the mission Bill Daniels set for his philanthropic work.
 "An enhanced partnership with C-SPAN will allow PICC to incorporate technology to bring down walls, open access to students nationally and realize students' aspirations," she said.
 Linda Childears, Daniels Fund president and CEO, said, "Bill Daniels was deeply patriotic. When he spoke to students, he often reminded them of the reasons he willingly risked his life defending the cause of freedom in two wars.
 "As he established the Daniels Fund, Bill directed us to support programs in our Youth Development funding area that build character and provide the necessary life skills young people need to become engaged citizens.
" Hallmarks of PICC will be student participation, learning experiences and opportunities that nurture the next generation of engaged citizens at home, while building relationships with growing numbers of international students who will develop a better understanding of the United States.
 PICC's first event will be an energy forum focusing on fossil fuels, renewable energy and Purdue research while featuring nationally known scientists, industry leaders and journalists.
 A New Energy Future, sponsored by PICC and Bloomberg View, will be from 1:30-6 p.m. Sept. 13 in Stewart Center's Loeb Hall. It is free and open to the public.
 The event will feature two panel discussions and a Brian Lamb interview with Michael Eskew, UPS director and former chairman and CEO.
 Since its inception as Project Impact, PICC has helped students across the university sharpen their critical thinking and communication skills and build professional networks as they produced forums featuring historians, government officials, journalists, media executives and successful practitioners in their fields of interest.
 So far, 44 students from fields as varied as communication and nuclear engineering have been selected to participate in the program's annual class in Washington, D.C.
, in May. Many more students have played a role in planning and executing the forums and other activities. Lori Sparger, College of Liberal Arts director of advancement, 765-494-9314, 
lsparger@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/global-policy-research-institute-awards-first-graduate-research-fellowships.html
<Content> Global Policy Research Institute awards first graduate research fellowships
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The Global Policy Research Institute has awarded its first Graduate Student Research Fellowships to two Purdue University graduate students.
 The awards provide $12,000 to each student to conduct research related to the completion of their thesis or dissertation that furthers the mission of GPRI.
 This year's fellowship winners are Katie Cahill-Rincón and Emre Gencer. Cahill-Rincón, a doctoral candidate in political science from Clarkston, Wash.
, is studying the distribution of social goods, specifically child immunizations, in democratic versus non-democratic nations. Gencer, a doctoral student in chemical engineering from Istanbul, Turkey, will focus his research on creating a transitional energy source through the combination of currently used fossil fuels and solar energy.
 "Both of these students are great examples of the excellent level of research GPRI was looking for in our first year giving out this fellowship," said Dennis Depew, the institute's interim director.
 "The innovative ideas they presented combine science and public policy, which is exactly what we wanted to see." Cahill-Rincón's proposal to study distribution of child immunizations fits right into the institute's main mission: to inform policymakers about critical issues such as food security and health, Depew said.
 "Policy is about what governments choose to do and not to do," Cahill-Rincón said. "And part of what I’m examining is what they have chosen to do when it comes to child immunizations.
" Her project compares the consistency and overall success of child immunizations in India, the largest democracy in the world, with politically unstable countries, such as Bangladesh.
 She will include those case studies in a larger pool of data from 50 different developing countries. "Some nations, like Bangladesh, have chosen to be entrepreneurial and partner with external organizations, while other nations, like India, have made different choices; partly due to concerns about sovereignty.
 Both of those choices have an important impact on policy outcomes." Cahill-Rincón, who is going to India in June, will examine the widest discrepancies India faces when it comes to child immunization rates across the country.
 After completing fieldwork in India, Cahill-Rincón will travel to Bangladesh in September. Gencer is taking a physical rather than social science approach to his project.
 His research looks at potentially effective methods for prolonging the life span of current energy sources, specifically those used in the transportation sector and electricity generation and heating, by combining them with the most abundant sustainable energy source, solar energy.
 "We need a transition solution," Gencer said. "Now we have fossil fuels, but in 100 years we won't have fossil fuels. If we start using renewable energy, we will extend this period and the transition to using other sources of energy will be more smoother.
" "We can do optimizations and find new processes, but without the policy aspect it is really hard to express ourselves and show the importance of this project," Gencer said.
 "So with this fellowship it will be much easier to address these aspects and to reach the right people." The fellowship provides stipends for research-related expenses from May to November of 2013.
 Cahill-Rincón and Gencer will file reports and policy briefs with GPRI following the conclusion of their research. The Global Policy Research Institute enhances the visibility and impact of Purdue University's strengths in policy-related and multidisciplinary research, education, service and outreach to inform decision-makers on global policy issues.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/grain-handling-specialist-offers-tips-for-protecting-stored-grain.html
<Content> Grain handling specialist offers tips for protecting stored grain
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The lowest corn prices in recent years mean farmers are likely to store a large portion of the crop on the farm into the late spring or summer of 2014, a Purdue Extension grain handling specialist says.
 Anytime growers decide to put corn into storage, and especially when they plan to store it for several months, they need to manage the grain properly to keep it from spoiling.
 That includes drying corn to a safer moisture level when it comes out of the field and then properly cleaning, loading, aerating and monitoring it.
 "This will require adequately drying to 14 to 14.5 percent for long-term storage," Klein Ileleji said. "Think of grain in the bin as cash in the bank.
 Without good management, this cash can go out of condition, quickly eroding your investment." * Sanitation: Growers need to remove all of the food sources and harboring spots for rodents and insects around their storage facilities.
 This includes cleaning up grain spills and mowing surrounding vegetation. It also means cleaning handling equipment, including augers, cleaners and dryers, at the end of each use.
 * Loading: When grain is being loaded into a bin, farmers need to use loading methods that minimize broken kernels and fine material and remove foreign material.
 Leaving broken kernels, fines and foreign material can make stored grain more susceptible to insect infestation, mold and spoilage because it reduces initial grain quality and aeration efficiency.
 According to Purdue Extension's Agricultural Safety Program, out-of-condition grain is the most frequent cause of grain entrapments and engulfment.
 "Cleaning grain and coring the bin to remove fines, leveling binned grain and using appropriate drying and handling methods all reduce broken kernels and fines, and reduce the chance you will need to enter the bin when you unload the grain," Ileleji said.
 * Aeration: This is the method of cooling grain with ambient air after drying it to decrease insect activity and mold development.
 Growers need to run bin fans to reduce grain temperature to below 40 degrees Fahrenheit, and maintain cool temperatures into the late spring and summer.
 Using exhaust vents also will help control condensation on the inside roof and headspace walls of grain bins. * Monitor: Farmers need to monitor their stored grain at a frequency determined by the initial grain quality, moisture content, temperature and whether there has been extreme weather.
 The higher the ambient temperature, the more frequently bins should be checked. In fall, spring and summer, they need to be checked every 1-2 weeks.
 In winter, that can be reduced to once a month. When checking stored grain, growers with temperature cables should monitor for gradual temperature increases over time, rather than absolute temperature.
 If there are no temperature cables or CO2 sensors available, Ileleji said the smell of spoilage when fans are running is a good indicator that there's a problem.
 "Keep detailed records with dates and what was monitored," he said. "Remember, it is the trends in data that help diagnose a problem and not the data collected at a given time.
" Purdue Extension offers a grain management bulletin through The Education Store. The two-page publication, Maximizing Grain Quality and Profits
, (ID-207) can be downloaded for free (https://mdc.itap.purdue.edu/item.asp?Item_Number=ID-207#.Ul66MZTF0qY). It offers information about post-harvest integrated pest management strategy to preserve grain quality.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/grain-storage-safety-training-offered-for-young-workers.html
<Content> Grain storage safety training offered for young workers
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Young people on family-operated grain farms and beginning workers in the commercial grain industry can learn how to stay safe in their work by attending daylong training offered by Purdue University.
 "Safe Grain Storage and Handling for Youth and Beginning Workers" will be offered Sept. 30 at Brock Manufacturing, Milford, Ind.; Oct.
 2 at Beck Educational Center, West Lafayette, Ind.; and Oct. 16 at FFA Leadership Center, Trafalgar, Ind. Training will begin at 9 a.m.
 and end at 3 p.m. Steve Wettschurack, a Purdue farm rescue instructor, said the goal is to provide basic awareness safety and health training needed by young people interested in pursuing employment in the commercial grain industry or who are already employed on family-operated farms with grain storage operations.
 He said about one in every five victims of serious accidents at grain storage and handling facilities are people under the age of 21.
 "The primary cause of these tragic events has been the lack of awareness of basic hazards associated with storage and handling of grain and failure to comply with safe grain-handling practices," Wettschurack said.
 Participants will learn the importance of the grain industry and career opportunities. Topics to be discussed include primary hazards associated with grain storage and handling, common ways workers become entrapped in flowing grain, basic safety practices, types of personal protective equipment, rights of workers under the provisions of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and steps to take in the event of an emergency.
 There is no cost to attend, but advance registration is required. Basic personal protective equipment and lunch will be provided.
 Participants will receive a certificate of attendance and samples of basic personal protective equipment commonly used in the grain industry.
 Farm youth working on family-operated grain farms, high school and community college students interested in a career or summer employment in agriculture or the grain industry, FFA members, and young and beginning workers in the commercial grain industry are encouraged to attend.
 To register or for more information, contact Steve Wettschurack at 765-714-4557 or swettsch@purdue.edu. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/gravity-defying-leo-to-perform-at-purdue-university.html
<Content> Gravity-defying 'LEO' to perform at Purdue University
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.— "LEO," a night of gravity-defying theatrical magic, will come to Purdue University's Loeb Playhouse at 7:30 p.m.
 Oct. 24-26, with a special matinee at 3 p.m. Oct. 25. The performances are presented by Purdue Convocations. What would happen if the law of gravity suddenly changed?
 "LEO" defies this law in funny, surprising, surreal, and touching ways. William Bonnet stars in this one-man piece of physical/acrobatic theater, based on his original idea and directed by Daniel Briére.
 "LEO" won several major awards at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival, including the Scotsman Fringe First Award. To make the experience all the more magical and immersive, seating will be limited to the main floor for these four performances.
 Tickets are $28 for adults and $20 for children 18 years and younger, Purdue students and Ivy Tech Lafayette students. Tickets are available at the Elliott Hall and Stewart Center box offices at 765-494-3933, 800-914-SHOW or online through 
www.convocations.org. Initiated in 1902, Purdue Convocations was one of the first professional performing arts presenters in the United States.
 Each year, Convocations offers the region 20-30 performances of widely varying genres. Purdue Convocations aims to promote frequent exposure to and familiarity with human cultural expression in a multitude of forms and media.
 Note to Journalists: Publication-quality photographs are available at http://www.convocations.org/press </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/greater-lafayette-startup-weekend-brings-entrepreneurs-together.html
<Content> Greater Lafayette Startup Weekend brings entrepreneurs together
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Technology developers, designers, marketers and product managers throughout the Greater Lafayette area will have 54 hours to take their innovative business ideas from concept to launch during a November event at 
Purdue Research Park. Greater Lafayette Startup Weekend will be Friday, Nov. 15, through Sunday, Nov. 17, at the Herman and Heddy Kurz Purdue Technology Center, 1281 Win Hentschel Blvd.
, West Lafayette. The event costs $30, but Early Bird discounts are available through Thursday (Oct 31). Register at http://greaterlafayette.startupweekend.org/
 Attendees will pitch ideas Friday night, and groups will form based on mutual interest in an idea. Teams will spend the rest of the weekend developing the idea, creating prototypes and establishing a business plan.
 On Sunday, the groups will present to a panel of judges, which will award prizes targeted to help teams build their startups after the event closes.
 Around 100 attendees are expected to participate, including residents, students from Purdue University and other institutes of higher learning, and entrepreneurs throughout the state.
 Local CEOs and startup veterans will provide expertise and share their experiences starting a technology-based business. Startup Weekend
 is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit based in Seattle. Founded in 2007 in Boulder, Colo., by Andrew Hyde, the organization has been based out of Seattle since 2009 under the direction of Marc Nager.
 Supported by a grant from the Kauffman Foundation, Startup Weekend has held over 325 events around the globe, inspiring nearly 30,000 entrepreneurs to take an idea from concept to launch.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 240 companies that employ about 4,500 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Nehemiah Wyant, 574-870-4603, nehemiahwyant@gmail.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/green-stem-syndrome-present-in-some-indiana-soybean-fields.html
<Content> Green stem syndrome present in some Indiana soybean fields
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Some Indiana soybean fields are showing symptoms of green stem syndrome, a Purdue Extension soybean specialist says.
 Green stem syndrome occurs when soybean pods and seeds mature - turning harvest color and drying out - while the stems remain green.
 Late-season stresses that interrupt seed-fill, such as weather, the environment, viral diseases or insect infestations, usually cause the problem.
 "It's been noticed around the state, spots here and there where later-in-the-season weather stressed the plants," Shaun Casteel said.
 "The dry weather and heat caused plants to abort pods. The plants' demand for pod development and seed fill wasn't there anymore, so the plants started maintaining the stem as the plant matured.
" Casteel said farmers should go into fields that seem to be browning and see if both the pods and stems are maturing. "This year with some of those green stem-type fields, producers need to take a look at the pods themselves and the grain to see if they are dry enough for harvest," he said.
 Soybeans should be harvested at or slightly above 13 percent moisture to maximize yield, but green stems are tough to harvest. The first is to harvest the beans at optimal grain moisture to capture water weight.
 Doing so likely will slow harvest and increase fuel costs because of the green stems. "For harvest, be prepared to have to chew through fields with green-stem syndrome with the combine, especially with older equipment," Casteel said.
 Another option is to wait and harvest the plants when the stems turn brown. This option is easier on equipment but likely will reduce yield due to lost water weight.
 Delaying harvest for a few weeks also could allow the pods more time to dry out and possibly shatter. "Producers need to be aware that this phenomenon is occurring so they can make informed decisions about optimizing harvest and reducing losses in yield and profit," Casteel said.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/gullah-stories,-songs-featured-in-bcc-presentation-at-fowler-hall.html
<Content> Gullah stories, songs featured in BCC presentation at Fowler Hall
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Gullah stories and songs will take center stage Thursday (Sept. 5) at Fowler Hall when Ron and Natalie Daise present "Dream Weaving Gullah Stories & Songs.
" The 7 p.m. performance is sponsored by Purdue University's Black Cultural Center as part of its Fall Cultural Arts Series, which is exploring Gullah culture.
 The presentation will include customs, beliefs, folkways, language and heritage of the Gullah people. "The strongest retention of African-American heritage is in the South Carolina and Georgia Sea Islands," said Renee Thomas, director of the BCC.
 "The origin of the Gullah culture is connected to the Trans-Atlantic slave trade. Many enslaved Africans labored on the sea island rice plantations, lived for several centuries in relative isolation and maintained strong community life.
 That allowed them to preserve more of their African culture than any other group of blacks in the U.S." Ron and Natalie Daise starred in and served as cultural consultants for the "Gullah Gullah Island" television show on Nick Jr.
 from 1994-98. It was named one of the 10 best children's shows by TV Guide in 1996 and in 1997 was nominated for a daytime Emmy in the preschool series category.
 The show was nominated twice for the NAACP Image Award and won two Parent's Choice Awards. Ron, a native of St. Helena Island, S.C.
, and Natalie Daise have been performing together since 1983 and were married in 1985. They then began touring with their show, "Sea Island Montage," based on Ron's book "Reminiscences of Sea Island Heritage," in 1986.
 The performances were based on stories from oral histories of elderly St. Helena Island residents. In addition to the 7 p.m. performance, which is free and open to the public, Ron Daise will conduct a choral master class "Down by the Riverside & Other Spirituals," at 2 p.m.
 at the Black Cultural Center, 1100 Third St., West Lafayette. Thomas said participants in the class are encouraged to come ready to sing, clap, stomp and enjoy.
 Source: Renee Thomas, 765-494-3091, rathomas@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/halloween-monsters,-scares-on-tv-are-year-round-fare.html
<Content> Halloween monsters, scares on TV are year-round fare
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The spooks and gore of Halloween are now daily storylines on favorite television shows as they take over pop culture, says a Purdue University mass media expert.
 "Vampires, zombies, witches and other demonic horrors that were once watched just at Halloween are now part of viewers' regular programming, especially as the special effects make these storylines more realistic and their entertainment value increases," says Glenn Sparks, professor of communication who studies media effects and belief in the paranormal.
 "While they may be fun to watch, even for families, the increasing amounts of exposure to the supernatural or horror elements can affect people in negative ways.
 "The amount of supernatural and horror options consumers can watch today on TV is unprecedented, and children are growing up in a world where these programs are common.
 How much we watch and what we believe is something we need to keep in mind." Some of these popular shows include "The Walking Dead," "American Horror Story," "Supernatural" and "The Vampire Diaries," and the upcoming "Witches of East End.
" Realistic portrayals of supernatural characters and events can be emotionally upsetting for people who can't sort out fact from fiction and can also influence people's belief in the paranormal, says Sparks, who has studied how television shows influence people's beliefs in the paranormal.
 He also has studied the effects of scary films and TV images on adults and children by measuring their emotional reactions - including their physiological responses like heart rate and blood pressure.
 "Some may say they enjoy a good scare, but it's really not the scare that people enjoy as much as the relief when the moment is over and the feeling they have conquered the experience; the adrenaline rush from fear can intensify the enjoyment afterwards," Sparks says.
 "And some terrifying images or moments can linger with people and disrupt their sleep or make them feel anxious." "Older children in the ranges of 9-11 are able to distinguish between reality and fantasy but they are still really vulnerable because many of these images are presented as if they're real," he says.
 "A child may seem OK watching a show, but it's the aftereffects that can leave them disturbed. Even teenagers' belief systems are still forming, so parents should be involved in regulating the media diet and talk to their children about what they are watching.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/harry-potter-parody-comes-to-purdue.html
<Content> 'Harry Potter' parody comes to Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.— "Potted Potter" will come to Purdue University's Loeb Playhouse at 7 and 9:30 p.m. Oct. 17. The performances are presented by 
Purdue Convocations. "Potted Potter - The Unauthorized Harry Experience - a Parody by Dan and Jeff" takes on the challenge of condensing all seven Harry Potter books (and a real life game of Quidditch) into 70 minutes.
 Even if you don't know the difference between a horcrux and a Hufflepuff, Potted Potter will make you laugh. Created by two-time Olivier Award-nominated actors Daniel Clarkson and Jefferson Turner, "Potted Potter" is appropriate for ages 6 to Dumbledore (who is very old indeed).
 Tickets are $38 for adults and $28 for those 18 years and younger, Purdue students and Ivy Tech Lafayette students. Tickets are available at the Elliott Hall and Stewart Center box offices at 765-494-3933, 800-914-SHOW or online through 
http://www.convocations.org. Initiated in 1902, Purdue Convocations was one of the first professional performing arts presenters in the United States.
 Each year, Convocations offers the region 20-30 performances of widely varying genres. Purdue Convocations aims to promote frequent exposure to and familiarity with human cultural expression in a multitude of forms and media.
 Note to Journalists: Publication-quality photographs are available at http://www.convocations.org/press </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/hasler-appointed-president-of-purdue-research-foundation.html
<Content> Hasler appointed president of Purdue Research Foundation
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Purdue President Mitch Daniels announced Wednesday (Feb. 27) the appointment of Dan Hasler as president of the Purdue Research Foundation and chief entrepreneurial officer.
 Daniels will remain as chair of the PRF Board of Directors, which voted on the appointment at its meeting Wednesday morning. "I have asked all around the university and outside of it, and the opinion is consistent that Purdue is not fully realizing the innovative potential of its brilliant researchers and students," Daniels said.
 "With this move, we seek to create an ecosystem conducive to invention and entrepreneurism, from the newest undergraduate to the most senior researcher.
 We are assigning to PRF and to its new president the lead role in coordinating the many offices and activities already working toward this goal.
" Joseph Hornett, PRF's senior vice president, treasurer and chief operating officer, will report to Hasler and will focus on the management of the foundation's many assets and their performance, including the research parks.
 Also reporting to Hasler will be Elizabeth Hart-Wells, assistant vice president and director of the Office of Technology Commercialization.
 Daniels said more than two dozen Purdue entities are working in some fashion on technology transfer and the promotion of entrepreneurial activity.
 Coordination of those activities can have impact on many fronts. "Our primary goal is to empower more faculty innovation and to become more attractive to faculty innovators," Daniels said.
 "We want to turn Purdue into a fountain of new goods, services, companies and jobs. If we can build the right climate, good things will happen for the economy and society.
" Hasler, who will begin his work at PRF on Monday (March 4), was most recently secretary of commerce for the state of Indiana and CEO of the Indiana Economic Development Corporation.
 He retired in 2010 from Eli Lilly and Co. after a 31-year career, during which he held a number of leadership positions in Lilly's agricultural, medical device and pharmaceutical divisions in the United States, South America and Europe.
 He served as the company's vice president for global marketing, was chief marketing officer for Eli Lilly USA, and was president of Lilly's Brazilian and European operating units.
 Hasler is a 1980 graduate of DePauw University and holds an MBA from the Duke Fuqua School of Business. As president of the Purdue Research Foundation, it will be Hasler's primary focus to drive the life-changing innovations of Purdue's many labs and researchers to commercialization and value creation.
 "The talent and the innovative technologies that are being developed in virtually every corner of Purdue are a treasure trove," Hasler said.
 "Our goal will be to continue to up our game and not only impact the world with these potential products and services, but in so doing create value for Indiana, Purdue and especially the innovators.
 I'm incredibly excited to be part of the team that will, by igniting the combination of Boilermaker talent, technology and treasure, make Purdue's discovery-to-market machine one which the best emulate.
" Purdue Research Foundation is a private, nonprofit foundation created to advance the mission of Purdue University. The foundation accepts gifts; administers trusts; funds research, scholarships and grants; acquires property; and negotiates research contracts on behalf of Purdue.
 In the 1990s, the foundation was charged with helping the university in the realm of economic development. The Purdue Research Foundation oversees the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette, which is the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country, and Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization.
 Source: Mitch Daniels, president@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/health-and-kinesiology-teams-with-ywca-to-offer-exercise-program-for-cancer-survivors.html
<Content> Health and kinesiology teams with YWCA to offer exercise program for cancer survivors
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A new exercise program for cancer survivors will be offered this summer thanks to collaboration between the Purdue University Department of Health and Kinesiology and the Lafayette YWCA.
 "Exercise was once not emphasized for cancer survivors, but now research shows that physical fitness, especially in group settings, helps physical, mental and social well-being," says Meghan McDonough, an associate professor of health and kinesiology who studies exercise and social relationships of cancer survivors.
 "However, there are often few, if any, community resources to help people once they are finished with treatments." The Cancer Wellness Program, which is for adults ages 18 and older who have had any form of cancer, is June 3 through Aug.
 9 at the YWCA, 605 N. 6th St., Lafayette. The morning session meets 8:30-10 a.m. Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and the evening session is 5:30-7 p.m.
 on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The cost is $50, and scholarships are available. For more information or to register, call 765-742-0075.
 McDonough is working with Tarra Hodge, an assistant clinical professor of health and kinesiology; Nicole Berryman, a senior majoring in applied exercise and health; Heidi Kauffman, the YWCA coordinator of the 
Women's Cancer Program; and Janae Kraud, the YWCA youth/adult coordinator; to design the program. The sessions will be led by Hodge and Berryman.
 The programs will be tailored to individual needs, and activities include strength training, stretching, yoga, Pilates and cardiovascular fitness.
 "Cancer patients have been through a lot of emotional and physical stress, so jumping into a regular exercise class may not be for everyone," says Hodge, who oversees the applied exercise and health major at Purdue.
 "The goal is to help people improve quality of life in a setting that is specific to these individuals' needs. These sessions will focus on decreasing fatigue and increasing fitness levels, all in a supportive social environment.
" The goal of the YWCA Women's Cancer Program is to eliminate inequities in health care by removing barriers to access and promoting effective community-based outreach, education and referrals to appropriate clinical services.
 The program provides screenings for breast and cervical cancers at no charge for uninsured and under-insured women. "Even though this is organized through the YWCA and the Women's Cancer Program, the program is open to men and women and all forms of cancer," Kauffman says.
 "The goal is to provide a community resource to help a special group of people whose needs may not be met in other health and wellness settings.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/health-care-data-management-firm-joins-purdue-research-park.html
<Content> Health care data management firm joins Purdue Research Park
 MERRILLVILLE, Ind. - Family caregivers and professional health care providers can benefit from online products developed by a data management firm that has become a tenant in the Purdue Research Park of Northwest Indiana.
 Officials at InterContinental Industries Inc., dba interLink, have developed an online care coordination site called Saturing for health care providers and family caregivers to utilize for people with chronic health issues or severe injuries.
 The company's health care management site, called Advocare, is for state administrators and case management professionals who support underserved populations, including people with developmental disabilities and traumatic brain injuries.
 Richard W. Metzger, a Purdue University alumnus, is founder and managing director of interLink. He said family caregivers face the challenge of balancing caregiving responsibilities with their own lives, and professional health care providers are challenged to address state and federal requirements on quality and other metrics.
 "InterLink has a combination of data management and IT development expertise, combined with insight into the health care industry specific to our markets," he said.
 "We take pride in our ability to respond to market, regulatory or industry needs with unprecedented speed and quality for our customers.
" Metzger explained why he and his colleagues became tenants in the Purdue Research Park of Northwest Indiana. "It elevates our option to interact with other like-minded groups and individuals," he said.
 "Our passion is creating solutions to improve the lives of those who need it most. The creative energy at the park matches and challenges our level, and we are excited to be among others who are working toward improving the lives of others.
" InterLink provides IT, communications and senior-level management to organizations to achieve "Maximum growth. Minimum time." Working in close collaboration with their partners, interLink listens and responds with informed, strategic and process-driven solutions to ensure partner initiatives are implemented and objectives are satisfied in an efficient, measureable and transparent manner.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Source: Nora Loechel, 219-644-3033, n.loechel@intermediususa.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/high-nitrogen-rates-increase-micronutrient-uptake,-storage-in-corn.html
<Content> High nitrogen rates increase micronutrient uptake, storage in corn
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University study shows that high-yielding, modern corn hybrids take up not only more nitrogen from soil but more micronutrients such as zinc, iron, manganese and copper.
 Nitrogen fertilizer rates also influence how much of these nutrients are stored in the grain at harvest. Growers may need to use fertilizers to meet the increased micronutrient requirements of hybrid corn in high-yield systems, especially if soil nutrient levels are too low.
 "This study raises the question of whether we need to pay more attention to micronutrients in fertilizer management," said Tony Vyn
, Purdue professor of agronomy and co-author of the study. "In high-yield systems, it's not just that corn requires more macronutrients like nitrogen and phosphorus - which is what farmers normally think about - more micronutrients are needed as well.
 If you have soil that is deficient in micronutrients, you could be limiting your yields." Though micronutrients are essential for optimum plant growth and reproductive development, current management practices rarely take them into account, as growers often assume that soil nutrient concentrations for these nutrients are adequate.
 But in modern crop production systems, deficiencies could occur, Vyn said. "For many years, we didn't have to worry about micronutrients," he said.
 "But if you're in a cash crop situation where you're producing bigger plants and more grain, you are exporting more micronutrients away from the field at harvest.
 If you're not replacing them, the soil is going to be depleted over time." Soil factors such as pH and moisture can also influence micronutrient availability, said 
Ignacio Ciampitti, co-author of the study and assistant professor at Kansas State University. “Nutrient availability is more complex than soil nutrient concentrations," Ciampitti said.
 "Nutrient availability is also related to the plant's ability to take up each nutrient at the soil-root interface.” In the second part of a study on how modern corn hybrids (post-1990) absorb and allocate nutrients under contemporary management practices, Vyn and Ciampitti measured how simultaneous increases in the number of plants per acre and nitrogen rates affected the concentration of zinc, copper, iron and manganese in two hybrids of corn.
 Vyn said the influence of plant density on the uptake of micronutrients was relatively minor, even at high crowding levels, in that higher plant density resulted in similar yields as medium and low densities.
 But as nitrogen rates increased, yields rose and corn plants took up a substantially greater amount of micronutrients and allocated more micronutrients to the ears.
 "From a human nutrition viewpoint, there's always a concern that increasing yields will dilute the nutritional quality of corn," Vyn said.
 "But as long as soil concentrations of nutrients are sufficient, higher yields tend to mean more micronutrients are concentrated in the grain, not less.
" "Growers are not used to thinking about how much zinc leaves the field when they harvest grain corn," Vyn said. "But that's part of the management equation that has to be considered.
" At high plant density (42,000 plants per acre) and high nitrogen rates (200 pounds per acre), 58 percent of zinc taken up by corn hybrids was removed in the grain, compared with 31 percent of copper, 18 percent of iron and 15 percent of manganese.
 Vyn and Ciampitti also observed differences in when micronutrients are absorbed and where they are stored in the corn plant. Zinc is taken up throughout the season and is primarily stored in the stems during the vegetative stage, while iron is allocated to the leaves.
 Copper and manganese are distributed to both leaves and stems and are taken up mostly before the flowering period. To prevent deficiencies, Vyn suggests growers add zinc to bulk fertilizer with phosphorus - which has a similar uptake pattern - or put it in a starter, while manganese can be supplied in a foliar application where necessary.
 Growers usually can rely on soil for sufficient levels of iron and copper, he said. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/holocaust-conference-events-scheduled-april-6-16.html
<Content> Holocaust Conference events scheduled April 6-16
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The 33rd Greater Lafayette Holocaust Remembrance Conference (GLHRC), running April 6-16, will focus on the theme "From Living Memory to Historical Memory: The Holocaust in Transition.
" The April 6 event will be a showing of "Paragraph 175," a documentary about the Nazi persecution of gays during World War II. Discussion will follow with University of Colorado Jewish history professor David Shneer, author of "Queer Jews.
" The conference officially opens April 7 with its traditional full-day commemorative and academic session at Purdue University's Stewart Center.
 Shneer will give the keynote address on "Through Soviet Eyes: Photography, War and the Holocaust." He was nominated for the National Book Award for his 2011 book of the same title.
 He is the conference's seventh Rabbi Gedalyah Engel Lecturer. The lecture is named in honor of the late Hillel Foundation director who founded the conference in 1981.
 Before Shneer speaks, a candlelighting ceremony will be held with area residents who are Holocaust survivors and the children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren of survivors.
 Other events during the 10-day conference include workshops, discussions, films and a presentation of the play "Anne Frank and Me.
" All events are free and open to the public. A complete schedule of events can be found at http://www.glhrc.org/ The conference is sponsored by the Diocese of Lafayette, St.
 Thomas Aquinas Catholic Center; Hillel Foundation; Jewish Federation of Greater Lafayette; Purdue LGBTQ Center; Purdue College of Education, James F.
 Ackerman Center for Democratic Citizenship; Purdue College of Liberal Arts, Department of History and the Jewish Studies Program; the Sons of Abraham Synagogue; Temple Israel; and West Lafayette Public Library.
 Funding is provided by the Sam and Edith Chosnek Memorial Fund, Ackerman Center, Association of Jewish Studies, Gannett Foundation and Evonik.
 Source: Susan Prohofsky, conference chairwoman, 765-463-1980, s@glhrc.org </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/hoosier-harvest-market-food-hub-to-begin-taking-online-orders.html
<Content> Hoosier Harvest Market food hub to begin taking online orders
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Consumers interested in buying Indiana-grown food products can begin placing their orders online Friday (May 31) through the Hoosier Harvest Market food hub organized by 
Purdue Extension. Complementary to farmers markets, Hoosier Harvest Market is a cooperative through which consumers can order locally produced foods at any time on a website.
 "In a way many of our neighbors in surrounding states already enjoy, Hoosiers will now have the opportunity to access preferred foods locally and support their local producers directly through a virtual marketplace," said Roy Ballard, Purdue Extension educator in Hancock County and an organizer of the service.
 In a food hub, farmers and other producers maintain their product availability and prices weekly in an online marketplace. Consumers shop on the website and fill their orders with products from the farmers of their choice and pay online.
 Farmers then deliver their products to an aggregation point for sorting and packaging, and customized individual market baskets are delivered to a pickup point that the consumer selected.
 Consumers can go to www.hoosierharvestmarket.com to learn about membership, place orders and determine their closest delivery site.
 Producers who want to sell their local products also can find more information on the website and join the food hub. Based in Greenfield and delivering throughout central Indiana, Hoosier Harvest Market
 will have a ceremony for its first consumer delivery on June 6. For more information, contact the market's manager, Michael Morrow, at 
Michael.Morrow@HoosierHarvestMarket.com, or Ballard at rballard@purdue.edu. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/hot,-dry-spell-damaging-indiana-corn-and-soybean-crops.html
<Content> Hot, dry spell damaging Indiana corn and soybean crops
 The leaves of some plants in this cornfield in southern Tippecanoe County have wilted and turned brown. (Purdue Agricultural Communication photo/Tom Campbell) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Hot, dry weather that has returned to Indiana is beginning to take its toll on the state's corn and soybean crops, which Purdue Extension specialists said needed rain within days to keep them from deteriorating further.
 "A month ago I was very optimistic about the size of this corn crop, but now I'm less so," said corn specialist Bob Nielsen. The U.S.
 Department of Agriculture projected earlier this month that Indiana farmers would produce 979.4 million bushels of corn - annually the state's largest crop - compared with the drought-reduced 596.9 million bushels last year.
 Nielsen said yields in individual, drought-stressed fields could fall by as much as 10 percent because of the dry spell. Yield loss would be in the form of reduced kernel weights, not numbers of kernels per ear, because most of the crops were well into the grain filling period when the dryness hit.
 The yellowish section of a soybean field shows that plants on a hillside are "burning up" from lack of water. This is among the worst-looking soybean fields that Purdue Extension soybean specialist Shaun Casteel has seen so far this year.
 (Purdue Department of Agronomy photo/Shaun Casteel) Download Photo "It's certainly not as bad as last year," Nielsen said. "We were optimistic this year that we'd see exceptional yields, but now we may have to settle for good yields.
" Although Nielsen said it's too late for the crop to recover, a widespread, soaking rain within a few days could prevent further damage and yield loss.
 "We need rain to retain pods and to finish seed fill," Casteel said. "The hilltops of some fields are burning up, and those plants will not recover.
 But there isn't that much severe stress in most of the state. "Even if soybeans lost pods due to this water stress, rain within the week would help yield recovery via seed size.
 It might prevent further deterioration. " Some of the stress in soybeans is from conditions at planting time, Casteel said. Some fields delayed in planting have poor root systems from too much rainfall in June.
 There was a chance of rain for Labor Day weekend, according to the State Climate Office, based at Purdue University. That would be followed by a strong but brief cold front before temperatures rise and conditions become mostly dry again the remainder of the week.
 A return to normal temperatures, with a slight chance of below-normal precipitation, was in the outlook for the following week. 
Drought last year shriveled farmers' crops and led to fire and watering bans across Indiana. The drought ended over the winter, and any remaining abnormally dry conditions were erased by frequent rain in the spring.
 But the state has been caught in a dry spell in recent weeks. An average of 1.73 inches of rain fell across the state this month through Aug.
 27, down 1.5 inch from the normal of 3.23, the State Climate Office said. The U.S. Drought Monitor indicates that abnormally dry conditions have returned to most of the central and far northwest counties of Indiana.
 The Drought Monitor and the weekly Indiana Weather and Crop Report soil moisture survey of the U.S. Department of Agriculture concur that abnormal dryness covers about one-half of Indiana land.
 The abnormally dry spell also is in states neighboring Indiana. Moderate drought, the first level of drought, is in Illinois. The State Climate Office will continue to monitor the conditions and provide updates as needed, said Dev Niyogi, state climatologist.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/hr-announces-new-2014-benefit-session,-plus-online-recorded-sessions.html
<Content> HR announces new 2014 benefit session, plus online recorded sessions
 Purdue faculty and staff turned out in big numbers for early 2014 medical plan information offerings from Human Resources. Because the early sessions were so popular, Human Resources has combined their content into a single presentation called "The Big Picture.
" Faculty and staff who attended the separate sessions -- "Is a High-Deductible Medical Plan Your Best Choice?" and "Health Care: Moving Forward in 2014" -- do not need to attend "The Big Picture," which will cover the same information that's been presented in the separate sessions.
 "The Big Picture: 2014 Medical Options and HSAs" looks at the dynamics affecting Purdue's medical plans and reviews all three 2014 choices.
 The session delves into the benefits of a health savings account (HSA) and explains how an HSA works together with a high-deductible medical plan.
 Sessions will be held at the following times: The sessions are open to all benefits-eligible Purdue employees and their spouses/same-sex domestic partners.
 Employees may attend in paid status with supervisor approval. Pre-registration is not required. Recorded versions of "Is a High-Deductible Medical Plan Your Best Choice?
" and "Health Care: Moving Forward in 2014" are available now on the Benefits website at www.purdue.edu/hr/Benefits/Medical/recordedPresentations.html
. PowerPoint slides from the presentations are also offered. More sessions will be offered during the benefits open enrollment period, which will run Oct.
 28 through 6 p.m., Nov. 15. For questions, contact the Human Resources Service Center at 49-42222 or hr@purdue.edu. Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907
</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/hr-connect-e-newsletter-launches-today.html
<Content> HR Connect e-newsletter launches today
 Human Resources will send the first edition of its new HR Connect e-newsletter today (Sept. 25). The newsletter aims to keep faculty and staff up-to-date with HR matters that directly touch the lives of employees and their families.
 The newsletter's design will make it easy for employees to skim its contents, and short articles and helpful lists will make it a quick read.
 With the launch of HR Connect, Human Resources will no longer publish its print newsletter, Choose Well, Live Well. Faculty and staff will receive HR Connect through their Purdue email accounts every two months.
</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/human-resources-making-courtesy-phone-calls-to-faculty,-staff-who-have-not-enrolled-for-2014.html
<Content> Human Resources making courtesy phone calls to faculty, staff who have not enrolled for 2014
 Human Resources is making courtesy phone calls to employees who have not yet enrolled for their 2014 benefits. The calls began this week, and a big effort is planned for this Saturday (Nov.
 9). "The consequences of not enrolling are very significant this year," says Eva Nodine, director of benefits in Human Resources.
 "That's why we're making an extra effort to reach out to faculty and staff who haven't yet selected a medical plan or opted out of Purdue medical coverage through EBenefits.
" Faculty and staff who don't enroll by 6 p.m. (ET) Nov. 15 will see the following effects on their 2014 benefits: * Everyone who does not choose a 2014 medical plan or opt out of coverage for next year through EBenefits will be enrolled automatically for 2014 in the highest-deductible medical plan, the Purdue Health Plan Plus HSA 2.
 This automatic enrollment extends even to those who are currently opted out of Purdue medical coverage. * Although the employee will be enrolled in the Purdue Health Plan Plus HSA 2, the employee will not have a health savings account (HSA) through the University in 2014 and will not receive an HSA contribution from Purdue.
 Purdue can only open an HSA for an employee when the employee authorizes it during benefits open enrollment. * The employee may be able to open an HSA through a financial institution, but will not be able to open an HSA through Purdue next year.
 * Family members currently covered on the employee's Purdue medical plan will be enrolled automatically in the Purdue Health Plan Plus HSA 2 for 2014.
 * The employee and any covered spouse/same-sex domestic partner (SSDP) of the employee will be charged the $500 per person annual tobacco-user additional premium.
 * The employee will be charged tobacco-user rates on any additional employee term life insurance he or she carries. * The employee will have no contributions to a flexible spending account (including health care, limited purpose and dependent care FSAs).
 "Because we have all new medical plans for 2014, it's not possible to roll the 2013 medical coverage forward to next year," Nodine says.
 Employees enroll by going to the Purdue Employee Portal at www.purdue.edu/employeeportal, choosing the EBenefits link at the top of the portal and signing on using their Purdue career account username and password.
 Resources are available to help employees understand their 2014 options and enroll by the deadline. Contact the Human Resources Service Center at 765-494-2222, 
hr@purdue.edu or HR Help.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/hurt-falling-feed-prices-to-push-hogs-back-to-profitable.html
<Content> Hurt: Falling feed prices to push hogs back to profitable
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Hog production is returning to profitability as feed prices fall, and a reduction in slaughter numbers seems to show that producers are noticing, Purdue Extension agricultural economist Chris Hurt says.
 Major drought in 2012 ransacked the nation's feed crops, sending livestock feed prices sky high and driving hog producers to quickly send animals to slaughter.
 With a large-yielding corn crop expected this year, feed prices have been decreasing, which has turned around the outlook for hog profits.
 "This year, the hog outlook is almost the opposite of what it was last year," Hurt said. "Feed prices, especially corn, have been falling sharply.
 The hog outlook is profitable, so producers are more likely to be retaining or building the breeding herd and weights are expected to increase as producers hold onto market hogs longer to gain profits on every pound.
" The most recent hog numbers available from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, from the September Hogs and Pigs Report, showed that hog inventories are unchanged to somewhat larger compared to a year ago.
 "Yet slaughter in recent weeks has been very low, seemingly indicating a divergence from USDA's reading," Hurt said. Between mid-August and the end of September, slaughter rates dropped by an average of more than 5 percent and weekly slaughter rates have been down anywhere from 3 to 10 percent.
 One explanation for the perceived difference in USDA's inventory numbers and slaughter rates could be related to animal deaths from the porcine epidemic diarrhea virus, or PEDV.
 The USDA doesn't track PEDV deaths, so Hurt said those numbers aren't known for certain and it could be several months before hog markets are able to sort out the effects of the virus.
 Another explanation for seemingly low slaughter rates could be attributed to the way the industry and markets evaluate herd numbers with year-to-year comparisons.
 Hogs went to market at higher-than-normal rates in 2012 because high feed prices meant the cost of production was higher than producers could sustain.
 "What is being viewed as a very low slaughter in recent weeks might be due to an aberration in the slaughter numbers a year ago," Hurt said.
 "The unusually high slaughter in the late-summer of 2012 was being driven by the drought. Record-high feed prices and large anticipated losses provided a grave outlook for the industry, and some producers began to adjust.
" Those adjustments included an increase in sow slaughter and, in some cases, total-herd liquidation a year ago. Now that the outlook has improved, breeding herd expansion has likely started and hogs are being held to higher weights.
 These factors mean that fewer animals are headed to market right now and prices have strengthened. "Given low slaughter numbers, cash prices of hogs have been sharply higher than in the same period in 2012 when they averaged $55 per live hundredweight," Hurt said.
 "With lower slaughter this year, they have averaged about $68 since mid-August." Higher cash hog prices combined with lower feed costs are the important drivers for a profitable outlook over the next 12 months.
 Hurt said eastern Corn Belt live-hog prices are expected to average in the mid-$60s in the final quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014.
 Spring and summer prices are expected to move slightly higher. With the cost of production estimated at $57 per hundredweight, Hurt said cash prices in the mid- to high-$60s would mean profits of more than $20 per head.
 "These profits will enable producers to recover losses of about the same amount in the past year due to the drought," he said. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/hurt-higher-corn,-soybean-yields-put-indiana-grain-industry-back-to-work.html
<Content> Hurt: Higher corn, soybean yields put Indiana grain industry back to work
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A return to better crop-production weather and larger corn and soybean yields have combined to give much of Indiana's grain-handling industry a full workload after the 2012 drought left it with little grain to store, transport or process.
 Indiana has nearly 1.3 billion bushels of grain storage capacity, and according to Purdue University estimates, about 30 percent of it sat idle last year.
 That represents the largest underutilization of the state's grain storage capacity since the 1988 drought. "The annual value of the Indiana grain industry at the farm level is nearly $10 billion, so to not use 30 percent of the capacity had considerable economic impacts across rural communities in terms of lost jobs and reduced hours for workers," said Chris Hurt, Purdue Extension agricultural economist.
 Grain storage is a fixed capacity, meaning the associated costs continue even if there isn't enough grain production to use it all.
 That capacity has to be in place for high-production years, but in low-production years similar to 2012, it comes with continuing costs and no returns.
 The economic implications weren't limited to just grain storage, though. Processors of biofuels, food, animal feed and other products made from corn and soybeans also slowed production because of a lack of grain and extremely high prices for grain that was available.
 "Indiana is a major grain processing state, so those industries are now returning that idled capacity to work after periods of shutdown in the past year," Hurt said.
 The drivers behind that return to work are a corn crop that's expected to be near a record-high 1 billion bushels this year and near-normal soybean production around 250 million bushels.
 "We expect about a 5 percent underutilization, and it turns out that over the last several decades, that's been about normal," he said.
 A link to a video clip of Purdue University agricultural economist Chris Hurt talking about how this year's crops will produce more business for the grain-handling industry following last year's drought is available at 
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_3YqR_p1yWE&feature=youtu.be\ Agriculture News Page </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/imaging-tech-firm-launches-mini-spectrometer,-will-present-at-2013-spie-defense,-security-and-sensing.html
<Content> Imaging tech firm launches mini spectrometer, will present at 2013 SPIE Defense, Security and Sensing
 Imaging tech firm launches mini spectrometer, will present at 2013 SPIE Defense, Security and Sensing WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind., LOGAN, Utah, and DURHAM, N.C.
 - Professionals who analyze chemical and pharmaceutical manufacturing substances, hazardous materials, explosives, pollutants and raw materials may benefit by using a newly launched hand-held spectrometer from an imaging technology company.
 Wasatch Photonics Inc. has launched its Stroker 785L Raman spectrometer for rent through http://www.ramanrentals.com or purchase.
 The company has offices in Utah, the Research Triangle Park in North Carolina and the Purdue Research Park. Michael Sullivan, general manager of the spectrometer division at Wasatch Photonics, said the device makes use of new high-dispersion grating technology.
 "This provides improved efficiency over an entire bandwidth, which increases the transmission of the whole optics," he said. "The result is a miniature, portable and fast f/1.3 Raman spectrometer with performance equal to that of large research-grade spectrometers.
" Sullivan said the Stroker 785L was developed to expand the use of Raman spectroscopy in several applications. "It can complete on-site analysis of hazardous materials, biological and chemical warfare agents, explosives, pollutants, raw materials used in chemical and pharmaceutical manufacturing, and other substances faster than technology currently available," he said.
 "This technology could replace existing spectrometers for fluorescence, optical coherence tomography, laser characterization and astronomy.
" Sullivan also announced that a Wasatch Photonics official will speak Tuesday (April 30) at the 2013 SPIE Defense, Security and Sensing conference in Baltimore.
 Scott M. Norton, vice president of engineering, will speak during an 8 a.m. "LIBS, Raman and Terahertz" session of the Next-Generation Spectroscopic Technologies track at the conference.
 His presentation is titled "High-throughput Spectrometer Designs in a Compact Form-Factor: Principles and Applications." "It will be of interest to those concerned with sensitivity and portability in their applications," Norton said.
 Founded in 2002, Wasatch Photonics Inc. designs, manufactures and markets high-performance Raman spectrometers, Optical Coherence Tomography systems, enhanced holographic optics for optical networking, spectroscopy, test and measurement, and medical imaging applications.
 Their high-performance Volume Holographic Optic Elements (HOEs) and gratings are used in a diverse set of industries, including those in the defense and security, chemical manufacturing, pharmaceutical, medical, energy, education, computer, and electronics markets.
 Their products are based on proprietary holographic recording media and Dickson grating technologies. The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/imaging-technology-could-lower-coronary-disease-mortality-rate.html
<Content> Imaging technology could lower coronary disease mortality rate
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind., LOGAN, Utah, and DURHAM, N.C. - Patients undergoing angioplasty or other heart-related medical procedures could benefit from a new technology being developed with funding from the National Science Foundation (NSF).
 Optical imaging technology from Wasatch Photonics Inc. creates images of coronary artery walls in vivo to show where lesions and plaques have formed.
 Physicians can use the images to determine the best course of action, including where a stent might be placed. William J. Brown, vice president of business development at Wasatch Photonics, said the outcome of developing the technology will be the availability of a new tool to identify and treat coronary artery disease.
 "This disease affects an estimated 16 million Americans and is a primary cause of heart attacks and strokes. Identifying and treating plaque buildup and other intravascular conditions could reduce the morbidity and mortality rates from coronary artery disease," he said.
 "Our technology, called intravascular optical coherence tomography, provides detailed imaging information for physicians to use in plaque assessment and stent implantation and monitoring.
 Our system, with its increased image resolution capability and competitive cost, will provide a significant improvement over the current systems.
" Wasatch Photonics received a two-year Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Phase II grant for $498,325 from the NSF. The grant provides funding to continue developing the intravascular optical coherence tomography system.
 Brown said the grant also validates the company's approach. "The National Science Foundation has a long history of funding both basic research and, via the SBIR program, commercialization of innovation at small companies," he said.
 Wasatch Photonics Inc., with headquarters in Logan, Utah, and a division in the Research Triangle Park in Durham, N.C., opened an office in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette.
 Brown said opening the office offers strategic benefits to the company. "We want to expand our presence in the Midwest, and opening the office in the Purdue Research Park is a natural fit for our goals," he said.
 "We also look forward to establishing a connection with Purdue University, one of the nation's pre-eminent research universities.
" Officials from Wasatch Photonics will be at booth #1406 at the 245th American Chemical Society National Meeting & Exposition April 7-11 in New Orleans.
 Founded in 2002, Wasatch Photonics Inc. designs, manufactures and markets high-performance Raman spectrometers, Optical Coherence Tomography systems, enhanced holographic optics for optical networking, spectroscopy, test and measurement, and medical imaging applications.
 Their high-performance Volume Holographic Optic Elements (HOEs) and gratings are used in a diverse set of industries, including those in the defense and security, chemical manufacturing, pharmaceutical, medical, energy, education, computer, and electronics markets.
 Their products are based on proprietary holographic recording media and Dickson grating technologies. The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Source: William J. Brown, 919-237-5350, wbrown@wasatchphotonics.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/in-package-plasma-process-quickly,-effectively-kills-bacteria.html
<Content> In-package plasma process quickly, effectively kills bacteria
 Kevin Keener is developing methods using cold plasma to kill bacteria on in-package foods. (Tom Purdue Agricultural Communication file photo/Tom Campbell) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Exposing packaged liquids, fruits and vegetables to an electrical field for just minutes might eliminate all traces of foodborne pathogens on those foods, according to a Purdue University study.
 Kevin Keener, a professor of food science, looks for new ways to kill harmful bacteria, such as E.coli and Salmonella, that contaminate foods and cause serious illnesses and deaths.
 His method uses electricity to generate a plasma, or ionized gas, from atmospheric gases inside the food package. This process creates a wide variety of bacteria-killing molecules including ozone, nitrogen oxides, hydrogen peroxide and others.
 These molecules only exist for a few hours and then revert back to the original atmospheric gas, leaving a bacteria-free product.
 In findings published in the Journal of Applied Microbiology, Keener and researchers at the Dublin Institute of Technology demonstrated that sealed-package atmospheric plasma works well to kill bacteria in growth media.
 Their experiments showed that bacteria on these surfaces were eliminated with 20 seconds of treatment and 24 hours of exposure to the gases it creates.
 Keener said the cost of the process should be comparable to current chemical and heat treatments used to sanitize foods. "Even in the most resistant bacteria-growing media, 45 seconds of treatment gave us complete elimination of the 
E. coli," Keener said. "Under a microscope, we saw holes forming in the cell walls of the bacteria." Adapting the technology for liquids could allow development of portable devices to clean drinking water in areas with contamination or that lack other purification methods.
 It could also allow food processors to bottle juices without first heating them, a process widely used to kill bacteria that can alter products.
 "This could be developed to allow you to achieve something similar to pasteurization without the heat and quality changes that occur with that process," Keener said.
 In Europe, especially, new methods are being sought as alternatives to washing foods in chlorine baths. "Chlorine water works well on hard surfaces.
 But there can be issues if bacteria get inside organic matter on the produce, making chlorine ineffective," Keener said. Keener is working with researchers at Dublin Institute of Technology, National Centre for Plasma Science and Technology at Dublin City University in Ireland, and Innovació i Recerca Industrial i Sostenible (IRIS) in Spain to develop a precommercial system for larger-scale decontamination testing.
 After that, he would like to build a commercial system that could be used in food-processing plants. "Results from recent testing of 
E. coli bacteria in liquid suspensions demonstrated significant bacterial reductions with no heating or visual color change." Keener said.
 "This suggests that atmospheric cold plasma treatment may achieve a cold pasteurization process for liquid foods to extend shelf-life and improve safety.
" The European Community's Seventh Framework program funded the research. These results are part of a larger EU project entitled SAFE-BAG.
 More information can be found at http://www.safebag-fp7.eu/ Atmospheric Cold Plasma Inactivation of Escherichia coli in Liquid Media Inside a Sealed Package
 Aims: The main objective of this study was to determine the inactivation efficacy of dielectric barrier discharge atmospheric cold plasma (DBD-ACP) generated inside a sealed package for Escherichia coli ATCC 25922.
 Methods and Results: A plasma discharge was generated between two circular aluminium electrodes at 40 kV. E. coli suspensions (107 CFU ml−1) in either maximum recovery diluent (MRD) or phosphate buffered saline (PBS) were treated in a 96-well microtitre plate inside a sealed package.
 The effects of treatment time, post-treatment storage time, either direct or indirect samples exposure to the plasma discharge and suspension media were studied.
 Regardless of the media tested, 20 s of direct and 45 s of indirect plasma treatment resulted in complete bacterial inactivation (7 log CFU ml−1).
 At the lower plasma treatment times (10–30 s) investigated, the effects of suspension media and mode of exposure on the inactivation efficacy were evident.
 The inactivation efficacy was also influenced by the post-treatment storage time. Conclusions: It was demonstrated that the novel DBD-ACP can inactivate high concentrations of E.
 coli suspended in liquids within sealed packages in seconds.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/ind.,-ky.-students-to-attend-inaugural-new-albany-entrepreneurship-academy.html
<Content> Ind., Ky. students to attend inaugural New Albany Entrepreneurship Academy
 NEW ALBANY, Ind. - High school students from Indiana and Kentucky will learn about fostering future economic growth as small business owners when they attend a weeklong academy June 9-14 that outlines steps in the entrepreneurial process.
 The 22 students who attend the inaugural New Albany Entrepreneurship Academy will be guided by local business leaders, Purdue Research Park experts and faculty from Indiana University Southeast's School of Business as they test the viability of a business idea, identify capital needs and devise a management plan.
 The programming is based on a methodology called "So what? who cares? why you?®" developed by Wendy Kennedy, a technology industry executive, professor and author.
 The event culminates with a business plan competition during which teams will present their capital needs and management plans to a panel of judges.
 Members of the winning team will receive tuition vouchers that are accepted at all Purdue University campuses and Indiana University Southeast.
 Paul Moses, director of the Purdue Technology Center of Southeast Indiana, said the weeklong event wouldn't be possible without several key community partners.
 "The Duke Energy Foundation and Velocity Indiana led the way with help from the Ogle and Blue Sky Foundations," he said. "The Horseshoe Foundation of Floyd County also played a key role in helping us provide this educational opportunity to the students.
" The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country in four locations across Indiana.
 The parks are home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 Source: Paul Moses, 812-206-8399, pemoses@prf.org</Content>

robots
<Content> Home : Purdue University 
 Welcome to the Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences. Celebrating over 75 years of preeminence in discovery, learning and engagement {1935 - 2012}.
 Within this web site you will find out about us and our department and why our graduate program in Speech-Language Pathology is ranked # 5 and Audiology is ranked # 12 in the nation by 
U.S. News & World Report! Our Ph.D. program is ranked 3rd by Academic Analytics, 2009. Here are a few facts and highlights! Over the past decade, we have been working on a strategic plan that included the introduction of a new Au.D.
 (Doctor of Audiology) degree program. In May 2007, the class was graduated! The SLHS faculty is composed of highly productive and highly visible researchers, having grants in NIH, NSF and other agencies.
 Our research projects reflect the inherently interdisciplinary nature of our field and we are adding faculty to accommodate an increasingly multi-disciplinary focus in speech, language, and hearing sciences.
 Presently, our faculty has highly regarded research programs in child language development, brain mechanisms, underlying language processing, neurophysiological bases of speech motor control, linguistics of American Sign Language, infant speech/language development, speech perception, and basic mechanisms of hearing.
 We are in the process of adding faculty to accommodate a growing multi-disciplinary focus on speech, language, and hearing sciences.
 We offer Ph.D. degrees in our department in association with many interdisciplinary programs at Purdue, such as neuroscience and gerontology.
 Students at Purdue may choose to earn the Ph.D. degree with or without clinical certification in Audiology or Speech-Language Pathology.
 Employment prospects for PhD's from our program are exceptionally good, and graduates of our program go on to academic careers at other top-ranked programs.
 The department includes Audiology and Speech Language Clinics that are open to the public. The Audiology Clinic provides a full range of diagnostic and rehabilitative services to children and adults.
 The Speech-Language Clinic offers many programs, including an adult language program for clients with language problems following stroke or other brain injuries, a birth-to-three program, an adult geriatric program at the Indiana Veterans' Home, the Purdue Preschool Language Program, and voice therapy in conjunction with area physicians.
 For anyone interested in making a donation to SLHS, please feel free to follow the link to our “How to Donate to SLHS” </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/indiana,-kentucky-high-school-students-complete-entrepreneurship-program,-earn-vouchers.html
<Content> Indiana, Kentucky high school students complete entrepreneurship program, earn vouchers
 NEW ALBANY, Ind. - Indiana and Kentucky high school students could advance economic development in their hometowns after learning about the entrepreneurial process during a recent weeklong event.
 The inaugural Entrepreneurship Academy at New Albany was based on a national award-winning program held annually on the Purdue University campus in West Lafayette.
 Local business leaders and experts from Purdue Research Park of Southeast Indiana and Indiana University Southeast's School of Business introduced the students to the world of entrepreneurship.
 Twenty-two students from 10 counties in Indiana and Kentucky received high-tech business cases at the beginning of the academy; each has been the basis of an existing company.
 Participating students were from Bullitt, Clark, Floyd, Jefferson, Lawrence, Marion, Oldham, Orange, Scott and Vanderburgh counties.
 Teams tested their technology's viability, identified capital needs and devised a management plan for business cases during the week.
 On the last day of the academy, they presented the cases to judges, who scored each presentation. The highest-scoring team won vouchers.
 First place and $500 vouchers went to ALGROW. The students, their high school and hometown were: Zane Copeland, Herron High School, Greenwood, Ind.; Kasey Fondren, Community Montessori, New Albany, Ind.; Sam Mitchell, Christian Academy of Indiana, Sellersburg, Ind.; and Breanna Sherrard, North Bullitt High School, Shepherdsville, Ky.
 The team's mentor was Ty Adams of Adams:Kinkade Design LLC. Bio Disc: Grant Oldham, Floyd Central High School, Floyds Knobs, Ind.; Nikki Ramsey, Paoli High School, Paoli, Ind.; Dennis Rumpel, Jeffersonville High School, Jeffersonville, Ind.; and Yonatan Smolyar, North Oldham High School, Goshen, Ky.
 The team's mentor was Joel Adams of SolutionStreak. HexaHeal: Chris Collier, Floyd Central High School, Georgetown, Ind.; Sheldon Kapp, Oldham County High School, LaGrange, Ky.; Oscar Tercero, North Bullitt High School, Louisville; Kaitlyn Thompson, Mitchell High School, Mitchell, Ind.; and Maxwell Weidekamp, Jeffersonville High School, Jeffersonville, Ind.
 The team's mentor was Ed Fancher of EnterScape. Windworks: Myrissa Druien, North Bullitt High School, Shepherdsville, Ky.; Emily Elkins, Harrison High School, Evansville, Ind.; Carson Jenkins, Floyd Central High School, Greenville, Ind.; and Joseph King, Jeffersonville High School, Jeffersonville, Ind.
 The team's mentor was Rich Boling of Techshot Inc. Zenith Inc.: D'Artagnan Engle, Austin High School, Austin, Ind.; Manuel Kim, Louisville Collegiate School, Louisville; David McGary, Signature School, Evansville, Ind.; Madelyn Miles, North Bullitt High School, Louisville; and Michael Parsons, Jeffersonville High School, Clarksville, Ind.
 The team's mentor was Jyll Stuart of Veracity Technologies LLC. John Vellinger, co-founder of Techshot Inc., was keynote speaker at the awards ceremony.
 Judges were Rex Bickers, an angel investor, Pat More of Duke Energy, Tony Schy of Velocity Indiana and Jay White of Indiana University Southeast.
 Community partners were Blue Sky Foundation, Duke Energy Foundation, Horseshoe Foundation of Floyd County, Velocity Indiana, Ogle Foundation and Park Community Federal Credit Union.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The parks are home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/indiana-fall-weather-absent-a-dominant-driver-this-year.html
<Content> Indiana fall weather absent a 'dominant driver' this year
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The lack of a developing, dominant weather system coupled with erratic changes over the past year indicate that Indiana could be in for wide swings in weather in the early weeks of autumn, the State Climate Office says.
 The October outlook is for above-normal temperatures with equal chances for above- normal, normal and below-normal precipitation.
 Weather beyond October is more difficult to assess because climatological systems such as El Niño and La Niña that would drive Indiana weather into November are still evolving.
 "This is a time when we should be cautious about looking too far into the future, especially when we don't have a dominant driver," said Dev Niyogi, state climatologist based at Purdue University.
 "There are some years when we have very strong indicators. When El Niño and La Niña are active, they tend to dictate the weather of our upcoming season, and we can project with higher confidence whether it will be warmer or drier.
" The fall season will be influenced by multiple air masses, any of which could dominate at any time, Niyogi said. "If we have a tropical atmosphere becoming more active, then we can expect more warmer and humid weather conditions, with more storm activity," he said.
 "On the other hand, if that is not the dominant factor, then we might have the potential for a colder, drier air mass coming to Indiana more frequently.
" "And therein lies our dilemma at this point in drawing one strong, singular conclusion as to what will dominate," he said. "But one thing that we can say for certain is in the absence of one strong driver and that we will be influenced by multiple air masses, it is very likely that Indiana will witness wide swings in its week-by-week weather as we go into the new season.
" Adding to the difficulty in forecasting is the unusual weather Indiana has experienced in the past couple of years, especially since last year when drought was so severe that it led to fire and watering bans and drastically lowered crop yields.
 Indiana emerged from drought over the winter with frequent precipitation, which was followed by an abundance of spring rain that delayed many farmers in planting their crops.
 Then, in another turnabout, Indiana this summer again fell into an extended dry period that brought back drought to some areas and lowered high expectations for excellent crop yields.
 The U.S. Drought Monitor update of Sept. 26 showed that heavy rains the previous week brought some relief to Indiana. Several counties in the state's midsection that had been in moderate drought - the lowest level of drought - improved to abnormally dry.
 Some other counties got enough rain to eliminate dry conditions. Niyogi said the climate office will continue to monitor the situation to determine whether any particular weather driver seems to become dominant.
 The office will provide an updated outlook later in the fall. Ken Scheeringa, associate state climatologist, said autumn typically is a difficult time for forecasting because the state is transitioning from the summer to weather patterns that will establish themselves for the winter.
 One thing about the fall that Scheeringa could say with absolute certainty - and with tongue in cheek: "Autumn arrived at 4:44 p.m.
 EDT on Sept. 22 - exactly as predicted well in advance."</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/indiana-farmers-now-ahead-of-five-year-pace-in-planting-crops.html
<Content> Indiana farmers now ahead of five-year pace in planting crops
 This chart, based on data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's National Agricultural Statistics Service, shows the progress of corn planting in Indiana, highlighting key years since 1993.
 (Purdue Department of Agronomy graphic/Bob Nielsen) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Indiana farmers who a month ago were wondering when they would get a break from rain to work their fields continued to take advantage of May weather opportunities, surging ahead of the five-year average pace in planting corn and soybeans.
 Despite cool temperatures and intermittent rain last week, farmers had planted 86 percent of the intended corn acreage as of the week ending May 26, the U.S.
 Department of Agriculture's National Agricultural Statistics Service said. That put farmers ahead of the five-year average - 77 percent - for the first time following weeks of planting delays from frequent and heavy rains in April.
 It wasn't only the weather that enabled farmers to catch up so quickly; larger equipment, including planters, used today allows for faster planting, noted Bob Nielsen, Purdue Extension corn specialist.
 "The combination of favorable soil conditions and today's high-capacity field equipment allowed Indiana corn growers to plant 78 percent of the state's corn crop during the past three weeks," he said.
 Soybean farmers planted 60 percent of the crop by May 26, compared with the five-year average of 49 percent. Soybeans typically are planted after corn.
 Twenty-four percent of the soybean crop had emerged, compared with the five-year average of 30 percent. For Indiana's wheat crop, the cool, wet spring slowed its maturation, the NASS said.
 But there were few reports of disease or insect problems. Hay was ready to cut throughout the state, the NASS said, although the constant threat of rain made it difficult for farmers to get the crop baled and into their barns without it getting wet.
 The NASS said most of the fruit and berry crops will make it through the bloom stage this year with little damage from frost. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/indiana-high-school-students-showcase-entrepreneurship-skills,-win-tuition-vouchers.html
<Content> Indiana high school students showcase entrepreneurship skills, win tuition vouchers
 From left, Corey Lutz, Mikaela Meyer, Dillon Fernando, Maggie Koch and Alysa Woodall, received $500 college tuition vouchers at an awards ceremony Friday (June 28) at the conclusion of the seventh annual Purdue Research Park Entrepreneurship Academy.
 Fifty Indiana high school students participated in the academy, which introduced them to the entrepreneurial process. (Purdue Research Park photo) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The state of Indiana could develop a more diverse, robust economy in the future thanks to 50 high school students who learned about the entrepreneurial process during a weeklong academy held at 
Purdue University. The seventh annual Purdue Research Park Entrepreneurship Academy was June 23-28. Local business leaders and Purdue Research Park
 experts guided the students, who also experienced campus life at a leading research university. Ten teams of five participants each received high-tech business cases at the beginning of the academy.
 Teams during the week tested their technology's viability, identified capital needs and devised a management plan for business cases.
 They then presented their cases to a panel of judges, who scored each presentation. The three highest-scoring teams won tuition vouchers that were presented during a June 28 awards ceremony; the vouchers are accepted at all Purdue University campuses.
 First place and $500 vouchers went to House Top Turbine. The students, their high schools and hometowns were: Dillon Fernando, Carroll High School, Fort Wayne; Maggie Koch, Beech Grove High School, Beech Grove; Corey Lutz, Princeton High School, Patoka; Mikaela Meyer, Chesterton High School, Valparaiso; and Alysa Woodall, White River Valley High School, Switz City.
 Tim Peoples of the Purdue Research Foundation was the team's mentor. Second place and $250 vouchers went to Bumblebee Technologies.
 The students, their high schools and hometowns were: Lisa Fleener, Oak Hill High School, Amboy; Jonathan Gerth, Franklin Central High School, Marion; Alexandra Magallon, Highland High School, Highland; Katherine Shively, West Lafayette High School, West Lafayette; and Shuchay Subramanian, Signature High School, Newburgh.
 Don Stocks, an independent management consultant, mentored the team. Third place and $100 vouchers went to PestOff. The students, their high schools and hometowns were: Eric Buedel, Harrison High School, Evansville; Eric Moorman, North Decatur High School, Greensburg; Elyce Stephenson, Franklin Township High School, Indianapolis; Asha Walker, Calumet New Tech High School, Gary; and Elizabeth Wilks, John Glenn High School, Knox.
 Anton Iliuk of Tymora Analytical Operations was the team's mentor. The "Most Entrepreneurial Team" award went to CarpeSol. The students, their high schools and hometowns were: Shelby Breen, Sheridan High School, Sheridan; Anthony Cheng, Frankfort High School, Frankfort; Katarina McGuckin, La Lumiere School, Long Beach; Samuel O'Dell, New Palestine High School, New Palestine; and Samuel Wernert, South Newton High School, Brook.
 Christopher Beltran of Passageways was the team's mentor. The David E. Ross Award for Entrepreneurial Distinction was presented to Samuel Wernert of South Newton High School.
 Amerisafe. Cassandra Flener, Castle High School, Newburgh; Teng Lee, Kokomo High School, Kokomo; Caitlin Moss, Noblesville High School, Noblesville; Lisa Otto, Triton High School, Bourbon; and Josh Shalen, Munster High School, Munster.
 Michael Halbrook of the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization was the team's mentor. Dissiplate. Rachel Hutzel, Central Catholic High School, Lafayette; Krishan Kumar, Terre Haute South High School, Terre Haute; Kara Latham, Noblesville High School, Noblesville; Ryan Schwartz, Lakewood Park Christian School, Leo; and Taryn Trusty, Chesterton High School, Chesterton.
 Ahmed Amin of Microfluidic Innovations was the team's mentor. Infinitus. Jared Lehman, Adams Central High School, Decatur; Susannah Pritchett-Montavon, Lawrence North High School, Indianapolis; Bane Stayrook, North Judson-San Pierre High School, North Judson; Simone Stew, Crown Point High School, Crown Point; and Chad Stucky, Benton Central High School, Oxford.
 Jonathan Gortat of the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization was the team's mentor. INsight. Lucy Eisgruber, Bishop Chatard High School, Indianapolis; Maryl Gerst, Lakeland Christian Academy, Warsaw; Cameron Greene, Harrison High School, West Lafayette; David Keating, South Central High School, Hanna; and Thomas Newby, North Daviess High School, Bloomfield.
 Steve Ouellette, a Purdue University post-doctoral student, was the team's mentor. Efficient Breeze. Addison Dempsay, Chesterton High School, Chesterton; Stan Mattingly, Guerin Catholic High School, Westfield; Huldah Ohiani-Jegede, Merrillville High School, Merrillville; Kyle Thompson, Franklin High School, Franklin; and Brittany Weber, Rivet High School, Vincennes.
 Drew Otte, a Purdue University post-doctoral student, mentored the team. Naturally Efficient Enterprises. Ryan Arnold, Lakewood Park Christian School, Fort Wayne; George Chien, West Lafayette High School, West Lafayette; Brandon Hamill, Valparaiso High School, Valparaiso; Abbey Hartwiger, Lakeland Christian Academy, Warsaw; and Amarylla Judd, Decatur Discovery Academy, Indianapolis.
 Aaron Trembath of NanoBio Interfacing Systems mentored the team. Mike Hiles, vice president of research at Cook Biotech Inc., was keynote speaker at the awards ceremony.
 Judges were Brad Addison, Barnes & Thornburg; Mark Cisneros, Nutrabiotix; Susan Davis, Hoosier Heartland Small Business Development Center
; and Tony Denhart, GE. Sponsors of the seventh annual Purdue Research Park Entrepreneurship Academy were Accent on Business, Barnes & Thornburg, Bill DeFouw Chevrolet-BMW, Coldwell Banker Shook, CSO Architects, Duke Energy Foundation, Fifth Third Bank, Great Harvest Bread Co.
, Greater Lafayette Chamber, Henriott Group, Hot Box Pizza, Purdue Federal Credit Union, Purdue Research Foundation, Ronald Blue & Co.
, Sign Art Etc., The National Group, Underground Printing and White Iris Designs. The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The parks are home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Source: Juliana Casavan, 765-588-3368, jbcasavan@prf.org</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/indiana-high-school-students-to-learn-entrepreneurial-process,-economic-development-at-academy1.html
<Content> Indiana high school students to learn entrepreneurial process, economic development at academy
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Fifty Indiana high school students from 28 counties could grow the economies of their hometowns when they learn about the entrepreneurial process at a nationally award-winning program hosted on the campus of Purdue University.
 Greater Lafayette business leaders and Purdue Research Park experts will teach high school students about the world of entrepreneurship during the seventh annual Purdue Research Park Entrepreneurship Academy, set for Sunday (June 23) through June 28.
 It was named the Incubation Innovation Award winner by the National Business Association in 2010. Participants will test the viability of a business idea that already has been used to create a high-tech company.
 They will identify capital needs and devise a management plan based on a methodology called "So what? who cares? why you?®" developed by Wendy Kennedy, a technology industry executive, professor and author.
 The weeklong event concludes with a business plan competition during which teams present capital needs and management plans to a panel of judges.
 Members of the top three winning teams will receive tuition vouchers that are accepted at all Purdue University campuses. Officials at Purdue University's Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation program will waive one course requirement for all participants who complete the academy.
 Tim Peoples, director of the Purdue Research Park Entrepreneurship Academy, said sponsors are being sought for the 2013 event. Current sponsors include Accent on Business, Barnes & Thornburg, Bill DeFouw Chevrolet-BMW, Coldwell Banker Shook, CSO Architects, Duke Energy Foundation, Fifth Third Bank, Great Harvest Bread Co.
, Greater Lafayette Chamber, Henriott Group, Hot Box Pizza, Purdue Federal Credit Union, Purdue Research Foundation, Ronald Blue & Co.
, Sign Art Etc., The National Group, Underground Printing and White Iris Designs. The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The parks are home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/indiana-property-owners-advised-of-walnut-tree-disease.html
<Content> Indiana property owners advised of walnut tree disease
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Discovery of the deadly thousand cankers disease in walnut trees in a southwest Ohio county should prompt Indiana residents to be on the lookout for symptoms in their walnut trees, a Purdue University Forestry and Natural Resource specialist says.
 No cases of the tree disease have been reported in Indiana, but property owners should be vigilant for signs of it, said Elizabeth Jackson, executive director of the 
National Walnut Council and the Indiana Forestry and Woodland Owners Association, both based at Purdue. "Residents need to know that thousand cankers disease has not been found in natural areas yet, but almost every incident has been in an urban, industrial or an area outside the suburbs," Jackson said.
 "Healthy trees are less affected, so keeping your trees healthy and vigorous will help reduce the risk of TCD." Thousand cankers disease, which has no known treatment yet, is a result of a walnut twig beetle carrying the fungus Geosmitha morbida.
 Adult beetles tunnel into the tree just beneath the outer bark and cause cankers - areas of dead plant tissue - that can block water and nutrient transport throughout the tree.
 The disease had been confirmed in several western states during the last 10 years and in recent years was spotted in Tennessee, Pennsylvania and Virginia.
 The Ohio Department of Agriculture has confirmed thousand cankers disease in walnut trees in Butler County north of Cincinnati adjacent to Indiana's Dearborn County.
 The affected trees are in an area 15-25 miles east of the Indiana border. Jackson said firewood and other types of untreated wood should not be transported.
 Many insect infestations, including some involving TCD outbreaks, result from infested wood being moved into an uninfested area.
 Symptoms of TCD commonly include thinning crowns, yellowing or wilted leaves in the crown and limbs that died recently. But Jackson said leaves turning yellowish in August and September and falling off the tree are not necessarily symptoms of TCD.
 They can be symptoms of anthracnose, an unrelated disease, or drought stress. The leaves of a tree infected by TCD will wilt but stay attached to the tree.
 Tree owners observing a black walnut tree with yellow leaves on the outer branch in the tree crown through September can file a report through the Forest Pest Outreach Survey on the Indiana Department of Natural Resources website at 
www.in.gov/dnr/entomolo/7416.htm. They also can print the form and send it by fax or email, or call 866-663-9684. The Hardwood Tree Improvement and Regeneration Center
 at Purdue is determining if clones produced in Purdue's breeding program for black walnut have any differences in tolerance to the walnut twig beetle, which carries the TCD fungus.
 "We are determining if wild trees in the forest have any difference in their resistance," said Charles Michler, project leader at the center.
 "The disease could have come from numerous places in the western United States, and we are trying to pinpoint where it came from.
 All of this information will help us if we need to deploy resistant trees in the future." </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/indiana-pumpkin-production-good,-even-with-2-seasons.html
<Content> Indiana pumpkin production good, even with '2 seasons'
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Indiana pumpkin producers overall were happy with production yield and prices this year, even with "two seasons" of drastically differing weather during the summer, a Purdue University plant pathologist says.
 Dan Egel said it was an average year for pumpkin production, with the first half of the season wet and the second half dry. "The first half of the summer was good for providing moisture for the pumpkins, and most pumpkins are not irrigated," Egel said.
 "In the second half of the season, some of the pumpkins on well-drained land lost yield because of the dry weather." The wet weather brought disease problems to some pumpkin fields, particularly 
Phytophthora blight, which can kill plants and cause fruit rot. The disease largely was held in check, however, when the weather turned dry.
 Consumers should not have a problem finding good-quality Indiana pumpkins. Egel said that when picking out a pumpkin, shoppers should look for one that doesn't have any soft spots, which could lead to rot.
 They can do that by running their hands over the pumpkin to feel for them. A healthy pumpkin's stem should be as thick and green as possible, rather than thin and brown.
 A green stem indicates a fresher pumpkin; a brown stem indicates the pumpkin was harvested too long ago. "All pumpkins are unique," Egel said.
 "Don't be afraid to buy a pumpkin with an odd shape or bumpy exterior. If you like the way it looks, take it home." </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/indots-cline-selected-as-purdues-vp-for-physical-facilities.html
<Content> INDOT's Cline selected as Purdue's VP for physical facilities
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University officials on Thursday (June 13) announced that Michael B. Cline, a Purdue civil engineering graduate, has been appointed as the university's vice president for 
physical facilities, effective July 1. Ted Weidner has been serving as interim vice president since the departure of Robert McMains on June 7.
 "Mike is a proven leader and problem solver who has provided outstanding value and customer satisfaction in both the public and private sectors," said Al Diaz, executive vice president for business and finance, treasurer.
 "We look forward to the innovative thinking he can bring to Purdue as he returns to his alma mater in this role." Cline has served as commissioner of the Indiana Department of Transportation since June 2010 and was deputy commissioner from 2006-2010.
 He previously served as project manager and transportation services manager for American Consulting Inc., an Indianapolis architectural and engineering firm.
 The Purdue vice president for physical facilities is responsible for the operation, maintenance, planning and construction of campus lands and facilities on all four Purdue campuses and oversees nearly 1,000 employees.
 Purdue's West Lafayette campus has more than 380 buildings. Cline is a 1988 Purdue civil engineering graduate and is a fellow of the Institute of Transportation Engineers.
 As transportation commissioner, Cline oversaw a $1 billion road and bridge capital program and managed a 3,700-person agency with a $400 million annual operating budget.
 While deputy commissioner, his responsibilities included all maintenance and operations for six district offices and a $400 million capital program.
 His work resulted in operations cost savings of $70 million. Source: Al Diaz, 765-494-9705, aldiaz@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/industrial-utility-monitoring-firm-hires-director-of-business-development.html
<Content> Industrial utility monitoring firm hires director of business development
 NEW ALBANY, Ind. - EnterScape™, an industrial utility monitoring company headquartered at the Purdue Research Park of Southeast Indiana, has hired John Seymer as its director of business development.
 Seymer previously had been an account manager at Jeffersonville, Ind.-based United Technologies Aerospace Systems. At EnterScape, he will develop and grow the company's client base, oversee account managers and work with the company's software development team.
 Mark Raisor, chief operating officer at EnterScape, said Seymer will push for innovations in the company's tools. "John not only has a passion for working with customers to solve problems, but he also has the intuition to see future opportunities to help clients grow their business," Raisor said.
 "He is a true leader with a clear vision for growth and success, and he has the skills and determination to make it happen." Seymer said EnterScape is among the industry leaders in the industrial and commercial data management sector.
 "To remain successful, EnterScape will need to continue providing and developing the kind of decision-making tools that make it possible for clients to operate more efficiently, safely and with less impact on the environment," Seymer said.
 EnterScape has developed a SaaS business model and software platform for the industrial market. EnterScape's proprietary data management and reporting software, UtilityRecon 2.0, supports both utility (energy) and enterprise (process) monitoring.
 EnterScape can provide either a turn-key service, including data acquisition hardware and installation, or data management and hosting utilizing UtilityRecon 2.0.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Mark Raisor, 812-725-2864, mraisor@enterscape.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/initiative-offers-path-for-students-to-graduate-in-4-years.html
<Content> Initiative offers path for students to graduate in 4 years
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – As a new class of students settles in for the academic year on the Purdue University campus, a new initiative is in place to help them earn a bachelor's degree in four years.
 4-3-2-1-Graduate! is an initiative developed through the Indiana Commission for Higher Education that is being modified and promoted at Purdue.
 The initiative's four pillars include: "It really stuck with me because of its simplicity," said Dale Whittaker, Purdue's vice provost for undergraduate academic affairs.
 "The primary area I think about within my responsibilities is that every student that comes here can get a degree in a field they want in a timely manner.
" Whittaker said the goal is to have 50 percent of the Class of 2016 graduate in four years. Recent statistics show 42 percent of students graduate in four years.
 Whittaker said students who fulfill the four pillars of 4-3-2-1-Graduate! tend to perform better academically. "We were trying to think of how we could increase four-year graduation numbers," said Purdue Student Government President Joe Rust.
 "This is going to be one of our tools used to increase that rate." 4-3-2-1-Graduate! was developed by the Southern Illinois University Edwardsville.
 Purdue biomedical engineering major Keith Hansen served as a student ambassador for the Indiana Commission for Higher Education to help promote the need for student success and timely completion, which also plays into 4-3-2-1-Graduate!
 "What you're seeing now is a wholesale launch so that every student will understand it as a recipe for success," Whittaker said.
 "It's your goal and the steps you have to take to reach that graduation date and to do it in four years," Rust added. Through dozens of interviews, Rust is working to create a video that will inform students of programs and services available on campus.
 "We want to show that not only are there programs and services on campus that will help them graduate in four years, but we also have so many committed staff, faculty and administrators that really want them to graduate in four years," Rust said.
 "They're here to help, and we want students to know they can go into their offices and ask for help in the areas that they work in.
" Rust highlighted the various tutor, supplemental information and undergraduate studies programs as some of the many services available.
 "Students who are more involved on campus tend to be more academically successful," he said. "Students who study more tend to have a higher GPA, and that's an indicator they are successful in the classroom.
 It all ties together to the idea of graduating in four years." Promoting the need for students to make one leadership commitment goes past the idea of graduating in four years.
 "We want these students in 10 or 15 years to be world changers," Whittaker said. "We only have four short years to build these skills, so this recipe is a simple way to articulate our expectations.
" Purdue has approximately 1,000 student organizations, Rust noted. The goal of having each student making one leadership commitment does not necessarily entail holding a cabinet position within a group.
 "We want students to come up with a leadership commitment, and maybe that's a commitment to yourself, a commitment to the campus or a commitment to academic success," Rust said.
 Cameron Brown and Brett Westcott – better known as the Purdue Compliment Guys – exemplified this idea perfectly, Rust said. The students regularly stood on campus and offered compliments to people walking past.
 "They were not involved with a position and not involved with a specific organization," he said. "But they had a leadership commitment to make the campus a happier place.
 They did what they thought was right and they did what they thought was best." </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/interlocking-segments-might-be-3-d-printed,-assembled-into-parts.html
<Content> Interlocking segments might be 3-D printed, assembled into parts
 Purdue postdoctoral research associate Yuezhong Feng creates an interlocking structure using a 3-D printer. Purdue researchers are working with the U.S.
 Army Research Laboratory to develop a technology for creating parts out of interlocking segments produced using 3-D printing to repair vehicles and other equipment in the field.
 (Purdue University photo/Steven Yang) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University researchers are working with the U.S.
 Army Research Laboratory to develop a technology for creating parts out of interlocking segments produced using 3-D printing to repair vehicles and other equipment in the field.
 The Purdue portion of the research focuses on building blocks called "topologically interlocking structures" said Thomas Siegmund
, a professor of mechanical engineering. "You could think of it as clever Legos," said Siegmund, currently on leave from Purdue to serve as program director of the Mechanics of Materials Division at the National Science Foundation.
 "We create a shape from individual pieces or building blocks.” The building blocks could be in the shape of cubes, faceted tetrahedral or other geometries, and might be created layer-by-layer using a 3-D printer.
 Then, these components might be assembled into parts for vehicles or other equipment. "The surface topology is important because these building blocks have to be arranged relative to each other in an appropriate fashion that functions," said Siegmund, working with postdoctoral research associate Yuezhong Feng.
 "You could make a brick wall in the classical sense, one brick on top of another. But then they can easily be knocked out of place.
 However, if you take the same bricks and tilt them so the edges are facing you, you get this topological interlocking structure, one inclined face interlocking with the next inclined face, and so on.
" Purdue's part of the research focuses on building blocks called "topologically interlocking structures" shaped like cubes, faceted tetrahedral or other geometries, and created layer-by-layer using a 3-D printer.
 Purdue researcher Thomas Siegmund likens the interlocking structures to "clever Legos." (Purdue University photo/Steven Yang) Download Photo
 Such interlocking structures might be able to absorb vibration and withstand shock better than conventional structures. The researchers are developing computational models and conducting experiments in a laboratory in the Mechanical Engineering Building.
 Parts might be created from layers or particles, an approach called "additive manufacturing," Siegmund said. "In our case we create each geometrical building block and then go to the next dimension by layering these building blocks into parts," Siegmund said.
 "So it's a multidimensional additive manufacturing." Purdue is collaborating with the Army Research Laboratory, and the Army Research Office funds the work.
 Siegmund also is leading related work funded by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research and the Defense University Research Instrumentation Program that has been supported by the Indiana 21st Century Research and Technology fund and Purdue's Center for Advanced Manufacturing.
 The research focuses on developing "metamaterials" possessing new mechanical and acoustical properties. "These materials obtain their properties not from composition but structure, and have the potential to possess properties not found in natural materials," he said.
 "The materials possess ideal damage tolerance and can be hybridized by changing both composition and structure." </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/international-think-tank-on-breast-cancer-prevention-offers-initial-recommendations.html
<Content> International think tank on breast cancer prevention offers initial recommendations
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — From before birth to puberty is a critical window for breast cancer prevention and a time when diet and exercise could have a significant positive impact, according to an international group of experts.
 "Windows of opportunity for positively impacting the genes that control breast health are very important in terms of preventing breast cancer," said Sophie Lelièvre, co-chair of the International Breast Cancer and Nutrition Project and associate professor of basic medical sciences at Purdue University.
 "From fetal life to puberty is a very sensitive time for these genes and a time when introducing positive and protective environmental factors like limiting fatty and sugary foods and regularly exercising should be emphasized.
" The recommendations came from a think tank of 25 leaders in the field from eight countries who met Oct. 9-12 in Saumur, France.
 The think tank was co-organized by Purdue, the French School of Public Health (EHESP) and the American University of Beirut, Lebanon, and was part of the International Breast Cancer and Nutrition Project.
 The project task force is preparing a manuscript detailing its recommendations for prevention and for the future of international primary prevention research.
 The group also highlighted the need to measure the psychological aspect of prevention approaches, she said. "Primary prevention of chronic diseases is a relatively new facet of health care and it involves working with healthy patients with no clinical signs of the disease," said Lelièvre, who also is the leader of the breast cancer discovery group at the Purdue Center for Cancer Research.
 "As scientists develop new ways to assess and decrease breast cancer risk, it is essential to measure the psychological impact of these procedures.
" Additional research recommendations of the think tank included a need for prevention research to be done in context, for example studying the communication of cells in their natural tissue structure and accounting for the cultural context of population studies; working internationally and including cross-cultural collaboration to benefit all countries; and developing a research hub to easily share information between researchers in different countries, she said.
 The goal of the International Breast Cancer and Nutrition Project is to develop new methods to assess breast cancer risk for all women and to design sustainable prevention strategies.
 The project brings together experts in nutrition, basic medical sciences, statistics, cancer epidemiology, communication, public policy, economics, health law, anthropology and medicine to study a variety of factors such as how cellular mechanisms in breast cancer development link to diet, as well as the role public policy plays in a population's available food source and disease prevention.
 The project, in which the World Health Organization and the International Agency for Research on Cancer are also involved, allows scientists to study worldwide diversity in breast cancer rates, dietary patterns and cultural contexts.
 The project is initially focusing on the United States, Ghana, France, Japan, Uruguay and Lebanon. "We hope that by educating people about the different factors that influence the genes behind breast cancer those at-risk can take steps to reduce their chances of having the disease," she said.
 "In addition to improving the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer, it is important to discover ways to prevent the disease.
 In the end, no treatment compares to avoiding the disease entirely." Connie Weaver, a distinguished professor and head of the Department of Nutrition Science at Purdue, co-chaired the think tank with Lelièvre.
 The two also described the International Breast Cancer and Nutrition efforts and accomplishments in a paper recently published in Nutrition Reviews as a special article titled "Global Nutrition Research: Nutrition and Breast Cancer Prevention as a Model.
" Purdue sponsors of the think tank included the Purdue University Center for Cancer Research, The Office of the Provost and the Department of Nutrition Science.
 The Oncological Sciences Center and the Office of Vice President for Research also provided logistic support. Additional information is available at 
http:www.purdue.edu/breastcancer. Connie Weaver, 765-494-8237, weavercm@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/international-wine-competition-returns-to-purdue.html
<Content> International wine competition returns to Purdue
 A ballroom at Memorial Union on Purdue's campus was filled with tables of wine bottles to be judged during the 2010 Indy International Wine Competition.
 This year's competition is set for July 31 to Aug. 2. (Purdue Agricultural Communication file photo/Tom Campbell) Download Photo
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – More than 6,000 bottles of wine from the United States and around the world are on their way to Purdue University for the annual Indy International Wine Competition July 31 to Aug.
 2. The event, now in its 22nd edition and fourth consecutive year on the Purdue campus, is the nation's largest scientifically organized and independent wine competition.
 It takes place in the Purdue Memorial Union ballrooms. "The prestige of the Indy International continues to grow," said Christian Butzke, professor of enology for the Purdue Wine Grape Team and the competition's chief judge.
 "The Indy provides competitors with an outstanding gauge of continually evolving trends and preferences among wine consumers throughout the world as well as a direction to use the knowledge gained.
" The Purdue Wine Grape Team has put together a panel of 50 judges, selected from among leading winemakers, winegrowers, wine scientists, chefs, sommeliers, wine writers, wine distributors, retailers and consumers.
 Panel members will critique the more than 2,200 entries and award medals to wines judged superior in their categories. Major trophies include Wine of the Year, White Wine of the Year, Red Wine of the Year, Sparkling Wine of the Year, Rose Wine of the Year, Dessert Wine of the Year, Winery of the Year and Winemaker of the Year.
 The public is invited to witness the judging each day from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Purdue Memorial Union ballrooms. The Wine of the Year taste-off on Aug.
 2 also is open to the public from 11 a.m. to noon. Entry information, event history, past winners and more information are available at www.indyinternational.org.
 Note to editors: Anyone from the news media wanting to serve as a nonvoting guest judge can contact Jeanette Merritt at 765-496-3842 or 
jkmerritt@purdue.edu. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/invasive-asian-carp-may-be-able-to-spread-further-than-once-thought.html
<Content> Invasive Asian carp may be able to spread further than once thought
 A collection of carp eggs collected by Goforth's team. (Photo provided by Reuben Goforth) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Those concerned about the spread of Asian carp in Midwest rivers had some comfort in the expectation that varieties of these invasive fish could only invade a restricted range of river conditions - until now.
 A Purdue University study shows that Asian carp are spawning in waters generally thought too narrow or slow moving. And while spawning was thought to end sometime in July, researchers have found evidence of fish spawning far upstream and eggs drifting in water as late as September in the Wabash River in Indiana.
 "It looks like the carp can probably become established in a wider range of environmental conditions than once thought," said Reuben Goforth, an assistant professor of forestry and natural resources.
 "While the presence of eggs indicates successful spawning by these fishes in new areas, it's not known yet whether those eggs would be successful in surviving to adulthood.
" Silver carp, black carp, grass carp and bighead carp - known collectively as Asian carp - are spreading throughout Midwest rivers.
 These invasive species may be outcompeting native species that are commercially and recreationally desirable. The fish can weigh up to 60 pounds, and silver carp jump out of water when disturbed, sometimes causing injuries to boaters and others using rivers and streams.
 While conservation workers and scientists are working hard to contain Asian carp, there is still concern that they could spread to other tributaries if they get into the Great Lakes.
 Models used to predict where and when Asian carp might spawn have been heavily based on information gathered from native habitats in Asian rivers and streams.
 But Goforth said there is strong evidence that the carp are able to reproduce in waters and conditions that were not expected. "The reason truly invasive species are so successful is because they overcome obstacles," Goforth said.
 "When you base their limitations on what happens in their native ecosystems, it's a good start. But it may be a good idea to go back and take this new data to recalculate more precise limits based on these new understandings.
" Goforth said it had been believed that heavier spring rain that increased water depth and flow in rivers was necessary for successful spawning.
 But last year's severe drought limited stream flows, and Asian carp eggs were found in shallow and narrow portions of the Wabash River once thought incapable of supporting the species.
 "We didn't have the normal spring floods and they spawned anyway," Goforth said. "Those changes in water flow and depth might be a cue to spawn, but they're not something that's absolutely necessary.
" Goforth said his laboratory would work on determining what allows Asian carp to adapt to conditions unlike those in their native habitats.
 "What we don't know is whether they have the ability to acclimate to those conditions or whether there is a sort of micro-evolution going on that allows them to adapt to these conditions," he said.
 The Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the U.S. Geological Survey's Upper Midwest Environmental Sciences Center collaborated with Purdue researchers.
 Their findings were published in the journal Freshwater Biology. The Indiana DNR, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Great Lakes Restoration Initiative funded the research.
 Phenotypic Plasticity in the Spawning Traits of Bigheaded Carp (Hypophthalmichthys spp) in Novel Ecosystems 1. Bigheaded carp, including both silver (
Hypophthalmichthys molitrix) and bighead (H. nobilis) carp, are successful invasive fishes that threaten global freshwater biodiversity.
 High phenotypic plasticity probably contributes to their success in novel ecosystems, although evidence of plasticity in several spawning traits has hitherto been largely anecdotal or speculative.
 2. We collected drifting eggs from a Midwestern USA river from June to September 2011 and from April to June 2012 to investigate the spawning traits of bigheaded carp in novel ecosystems.
 3. Unlike reports from the native range, the presence of drifting bigheaded carp eggs was not related to changes in hydrological regime or mean daily water temperature.
 Bigheaded carp also exhibited protracted spawning, since we found drifting eggs throughout the summer and as late as 1 September 2011.
 Finally, we detected bigheaded carp eggs in a river reach where the channel is c. 30 m wide with a catchment area of 4579 km2, the smallest stream in which spawning has yet been documented.
 4. Taken with previous observations of spawning traits that depart from those observed within the native ranges of both bighead and silver carp, our findings provide direct evidence that bigheaded carp exhibit plastic spawning traits in novel ecosystems that may facilitate invasion and establishment in a wider range of river conditions than previously envisaged.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/iu-health-arnett-plans-investment-in-lyles-porter-hall.html
<Content> IU Health Arnett plans investment in Lyles-Porter Hall
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University has announced that it will receive a $1 million investment from Indiana University Health Arnett for construction of the new Lyles-Porter Hall.
 Lyles-Porter Hall will house the Indiana University School of Medicine-Lafayette, along with the Purdue Department of Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences and other health programs.
 In recognition of the investment, a collaborative learning studio in Lyles-Porter Hall will be named for IU Health Arnett. "We are making this investment to support the medical education that is taking place in our community and the training of our future physicians,
" said Al Gatmaitan, IU Health Arnett chief executive officer. "IU Health Arnett values team-based health care, and this commitment will enhance our local medical education experience.
” Each year 32 first- and second-year IU medical students are placed at the Indiana University School of Medicine-Lafayette medical education center on the Purdue campus.
 "With our move to Lyles-Porter Hall, we will be able to house the planned increase to 48 students with a maximum capacity of 64 students in the first two years of their studies, " said Gordon Coppoc, associate dean of the IU School of Medicine and director of the IU School of Medicine-Lafayette.
 "Thanks to generous supporters like IU Health Arnett, the IU School of Medicine Purdue campus facilities in which these future physicians train will better facilitate the modern, robust curriculum.
 Exam rooms, space for a simulated mannequin and other areas will provide an environment more appropriate for medical training. These students may well end up practicing medicine in the Greater Lafayette area.
" The building is expected to open in 2014. IU School of Medicine-Lafayette currently is housed in Lynn Hall. The Department of Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences also has a partnership with the IU School of Medicine's Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery in its Doctor of Audiology Program.
 "Lyles-Porter Hall will benefit a large number of students studying in a variety of areas related to health," said Christine Ladisch, dean of the College of Health and Human Sciences.
 "We are very appreciative of the partnership with IU Health Arnett and grateful for their help in providing these students with a world-class facility.
" Lyles-Porter Hall, with 61,000 assignable square feet, will be located at the northwest corner of Harrison and University streets in an area of campus known as the Life and Health Sciences Park.
 The collaborative learning studio will be a high-tech classroom designed for small-group and team learning experiences. It will seat up to 63 students at seven round tables.
 Lyles-Porter Hall is named in honor of Purdue alumna Marybeth Lyles-Porter Higuera of Visalia, Calif. Higuera is a former speech pathologist who earned her bachelor's degree in speech-language pathology in 1959.
 Media contact: Michelle Kreinbrook, IU Health Arnett director of marketing and communications, 765-838-6266, mkreinbrook@iuhealth.org
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/kane-named-inaugural-director-of-lgbtq-center-at-purdue.html
<Content> Kane named inaugural director of LGBTQ Center at Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Lowell Kane has been appointed director of Purdue's Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) Center, university officials announced Monday (July 2).
 Kane comes to Purdue from Texas A&M University, where he has been program coordinator and founding staff member of the Gay Lesbian Bisexual and Transgender Resource Center.
 Established in 2007, it was the first GLBT resource center at a public institution in Texas. "Lowell has been an advocate and leader in the LGBTQ community for more than a decade, with specializations in educational programming, support services, fostering collaborative partnerships, facilitation, training and leadership development," said G.
 Christine Taylor, vice provost for diversity and inclusion. "He has dedicated his work to the pursuit of equity by identifying ways to improve campus climate and shape the educational experience to be more inclusive and welcoming of all students.
" In his position at Texas A&M, Kane focused on education, outreach and support. He also served as the south-central regional representative to the Consortium of Higher Education LGBT Resource Professionals and presented at state and national conferences on a variety of LGBT topics.
 "I am eager to begin my work at Purdue," Kane said. "I believe my experience at Texas A&M, particularly establishing the GLBT center and developing campus-wide programming has prepared me well for my new position.
" In 2010, Kane was consulted by RAND Corp. for the implementation chapter of the 2010 publication "Sexual Orientation and U.S. Military Personnel Policy: An Update of RAND's 1993 Study.
" He said this text was the framework for implementing the repeal of the U.S. military's "Don't Ask Don't Tell" policy, which forbade gay men and lesbians from being open about their sexual orientation while serving.
 "NASA wants to develop an environment that affirms a diverse employee population that is free from discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression," Kane said.
 Kane earned his bachelor's degree from the State University of New York at Stony Brook, where he served as president of the LGBT Alliance and as an adviser on LGBT issues to campus administrators and faculty.
 He received a master's degree in education from Texas A&M and is an alumnus of the Social Justice Training Institute. While at Texas A&M, he received the Phyllis Frye Advocacy Award and the Texas A&M Division of Student Affairs Award of Distinction and the Student Organization Adviser of the Year Award.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/korean-culture-day-set-for-feb.-15-at-purdues-stewart-center.html
<Content> Korean Culture Day set for Feb. 15 at Purdue's Stewart Center
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The Purdue Korean Association on Feb 15 will host a free celebration featuring Korean-themed art, food, music, dance and other activities.
 Korean Culture Day events, which will take place in Stewart Center's Fowler Hall, include a Korean film screening (2-4:30 p.m.), a lecture (4:30-5:30 p.m.
) and a traditional dance performance (6:30-8:30 p.m.). Other events are scheduled to take place from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Stewart Center's second floor and include a Korean folk museum and folk games.
 The Purdue Korean Association is a student organization that represents approximately 600 undergraduate and 400 graduate students as well as Korean professors and families at Purdue and in Greater Lafayette.
 Korean associations from Indiana University, the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis and Ball State University are helping the Purdue association with the event.
 Source: Sojung Becca Shim, Purdue Korean Association undergraduate vice president, 765-418-2434, shims@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/krannert-dinner-to-feature-awards,-keynote-from-gergen.html
<Content> Krannert dinner to feature awards, keynote from Gergen
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Krannert School of Management will honor six Purdue University alumni and faculty during its 13th annual Leadership Speakers Series dinner Sept.
 26. David Gergen, senior political analyst for CNN and adviser to four U.S. presidents, will give the keynote address. Purdue President Mitch Daniels and Krannert Dean Chris Earley also will make remarks.
 * Krannert Business Leadership Award to Linda Clement-Holmes, senior vice president of global business services, research and development, product supply and employee solutions, Procter & Gamble.
 She earned a bachelor's degree in industrial management from Krannert in 1982 and was included on the Computerworld 2013 "Premier 100 IT Leaders" list.
 * Distinguished Alumni Award to Lijun Du, president of Nanshan America. He earned a master's degree in industrial administration from Krannert in 2004.
 * Distinguished Alumni Award to John Krenicki, senior partner with Clayton, Dubilier & Rice. He received a master's degree in management in 1991.
 * Distinguished Service Award to Bill Lewellen, Herman C. Krannert Distinguished Professor of Management, Purdue University. He will retire at the end of this academic year, his 50th on the Purdue faculty.
 * John S. Day Distinguished Alumni Academic Service Award to Dan Black, professor and director of the University of Chicago Harris doctoral program.
 He earned both a master's degree in 1981 and a doctorate in economics in 1983 from Purdue. * Burton D. Morgan Entrepreneurship Award to Harold Mills, chief executive officer of ZeroChaos.
 He received a bachelor's degree in management from Purdue in 1993. In addition to his role with CNN, Gergen is a professor of public service at the Harvard Kennedy School and the director of its Center for Public Leadership.
 In 2000, he published the best-selling book "Eyewitness to Power: The Essence of Leadership, Nixon to Clinton." He joined the Nixon White House in 1971 as a staff assistant on the speech writing team, a group that included Pat Buchanan, Ben Stein and Bill Safire.
 Gergen went on to work in the Ford administration and as an adviser to the 1980 George H.W. Bush presidential campaign. He served as director of communications for Ronald Reagan and as adviser to Bill Clinton and Secretary of State Warren Christopher on domestic and foreign affairs.
 Tickets for the dinner, which will begin at 6:30 p.m. in the Purdue Memorial Union ballrooms, are available to the general public for $100 per person, $75 of which qualifies as a charitable deduction.
 Net proceeds from the event go to Krannert undergraduate and graduate scholarships. Specially priced tickets are available for Purdue students, faculty and staff.
 To reserve tickets, contact Lou Underwood, Krannert assistant director of alumni relations and special events, at 765-494-0901, 
lmunder@purdue.edu. More information about the Leadership Series and this year's event is available at http://www.krannert.purdue.edu/events/LSS/
 Note to Journalists: Media interested in covering the event should contact Tim Newton, Krannert director of external relations, at 765-496-7271, 
tnewton@purdue.edu. Videotaping and audio recording of the event will not be permitted. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q1/krannert-mba-program-improves-in-financial-times-rankings.html
<Content> Krannert MBA program improves in Financial Times rankings
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's Krannert School of Management MBA program has been ranked 12th among U.S. public colleges and universities by Financial Times.
 In the 2012 Financial Times ranking of full-time MBA programs globally, Krannert was 59th, up from 74th last year. Krannert ranked 29th among all U.S.
 programs, public and private, up from 39th last year. "Purdue University's Krannert School is embarking on a new journey to reaffirm its global stature and recognition as a premier program that produces 'Analytical Thinkers, Global Leaders' ", said Dean P.
 Christopher Earley. "We are gratified that this new momentum is reflected in the FT rankings, and we're very excited to be launching new learning opportunities for the global business educational arena.
 Purdue's leadership in engineering, science and technology is an ideal match for Krannert's emphasis on innovation and entrepreneurship linking fundamental scientific discovery to cutting-edge business practices.
” The Financial Times rankings are based on data collected from business schools and their alumni. Graduates are surveyed three years after completing their degrees to assess the impact of the MBA on their subsequent career progression and salary growth.
 The criteria used in the Financial Times rankings are grouped into three main areas: alumni salaries and career development, the diversity and international reach of the business school and its MBA program, and the research capabilities of each school.
 The Financial Times data shows that the average student who completes the Krannert MBA sees a 112 percent salary increase compared to compensation before earning their MBA.
 Three years after graduation, the average Krannert graduate earned $103,304. Krannert's MBA also ranked 46th for best value for the money, which compares salary to education and time costs in earning the degree.
 Tim Newton, Krannert director of external relations and communication, 765-496-7271, tnewton@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/krannert-offering-accelerated-weekend-mba-program.html
<Content> Krannert offering accelerated Weekend MBA program
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's Krannert School of Management has revamped its Weekend MBA program, reducing the length by 40 percent, from 35 to 21 months, while adding elective courses, greater leadership and career training and participation in an international business trip.
 Under the new format, students meet on Fridays and Saturdays every other week. Classes begin this August and students who successfully complete the program will graduate in May 2015.
 Under the old format, students met only on Saturdays and followed a three-year curriculum. The new format will offer Weekend MBA students greater integration with the full-time MBA program and other professional master's programs at Krannert.
 These enhancements provide additional experiential learning and professional networking opportunities for students. "Our program is designed to let working professionals earn a Purdue MBA in less time, without sacrificing the educational quality and networking opportunities that occur when students and faculty meet in person on a regular basis," said Don Roush, associate director of the Weekend MBA program
 Weekend MBA classes are taught by tenured Krannert professor and selected visiting faculty. They blend research expertise with practical business knowledge in a myriad of disciplines.
 Applications now are being accepted for fall enrollment. More information on the Weekend MBA program can be found at https://masters.krannert.purdue.edu/programs/weekend-mba/
 Source: Don Roush, 765-496-7313, roush1@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q2/krannert-to-offer-updated-human-resource-management-program.html
<Content> Krannert to offer updated human resource management program
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University's Krannert School of Management will offer a revised Master of Science degree focusing on human resource management program next fall.
The revision will make the Human Resource Management (HRM) program a more professionally focused and market-competitive option for students.
 It will be a 48-credit offering that can be completed in three semesters and will include a global and experiential learning component.
"The new HRM curriculum represents an innovative approach to human resource management," said P. Christopher Earley, dean of the Krannert School and James Brooke Henderson Professor of Management.
 "It also maintains a tradition within our school that has produced leaders in HR management with a strong business focus for more than three decades.
"HRM students will complete a management core of business analytics, organizational behavior, managerial communication and employment law.
 They can select three of six courses in the areas of accounting, finance, marketing, operations, strategic management and economics.
 The management core is 16 hours, the strongest requirement among peer institutions with similar programs. The human resource core classes will comprise 12 hours.
 Students may choose from a menu of organizational behavior and human resource management electives for six credit hours, and free electives for an additional nine credit hours.
 The final five credit-hour requirements will be any combination of global experience and/or experiential learning opportunities.
 Students may spend a module at the GISMA Business School in Hannover, Germany, or participate in one of the international study trips offered around the globe.
 They also may take part in programs such as Purdue's Experiential Learning Initiative, which allows students to combine prior knowledge and experience with classroom learning and apply it in an active business setting.
 The projects are executed under faculty supervision."This will offer students the best contemporary combination of human resources and business management training," said Brad Alge, associate professor of management and area coordinator in organizational behavior and human resources.
 "With a management core, expanded experiential learning and international study options, the Krannert HRM program is now positioned to achieve our vision of leading the human resources marketplace by producing HR-focused, business-savvy leaders for today's global organizations.
"The HRM program will begin each August and conclude in December of the next year, giving students the opportunity to do an internship during the summer before the final semester.
The Purdue MBA, which spans four semesters, still offers options in organizational behavior and human resources for students desiring to take more courses in the management core.
 Writer: Judith Barra Austin, 765-494-2432, jbaustin@purdue.edu Source: Brad Alge, 765-494-4483, algeb@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/lab-to-provide-purdue-entrepreneurs-space-to-refine-concepts,-build-prototypes.html
<Content> Lab to provide Purdue entrepreneurs space to refine concepts, build prototypes
 Students work on prototypes in the Purdue Artisan and Fabrication Lab in the Neil Armstrong Hall of Engineering. The laboratory has six areas where faculty, staff and students can build prototypes of their innovations or complete projects for required coursework.
 (Purdue University photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Purdue University will open its Artisan and Fabrication Lab so that more faculty, staff and student entrepreneurs can use the space to build prototypes of their products.
 The 4,000-square-foot Artisan and Fabrication Lab opened in 2009 and has been used by College of Engineering students for hands-on coursework projects.
 It is considered one of the country's premier university-based, supervised prototyping facilities. Through a collaboration among Purdue's College of Engineering, College of Technology, the Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship and the Foundry, the facility, while continuing to be available for students doing projects for coursework, will additionally be available for all faculty, staff and student innovators campus-wide who need to build a prototype for their innovation.
 The facility will extend its hours from 40 to 60 hours a week, including weekend hours, beginning Oct. 23 to support the additional use of fabrication areas.
 An open house will be held from 10:30 a.m. to noon on that day and will include facility tours. "Many Purdue entrepreneurs drive nearly two hours south and must rent space to build prototypes," said Dan Hasler, president and chief entrepreneurial officer for the Purdue Research Foundation.
 "They often have neither the time nor funds to do this, so this service will provide a tremendous resource to help Purdue startups move products to the public.
" Kara McManus, a mechanical engineering senior from Cincinnati, has regularly used the lab for classwork. "The artisan lab is an important resource for students because we are learning how to use cutting-edge technology that is used in industries," she said.
 "Just knowing how to use this type of equipment gives us an edge in the job market." Purdue's Artisan and Fabrication Lab is based in the Neil Armstrong Hall of Engineering, 701 W.
 Stadium Ave., West Lafayette. It offers space dedicated to various stages of prototype development including designing, building, testing, evaluating and refining.
 "Purdue is an international leader in educating future engineers and offering hands-on, team-oriented opportunities for students.
 The Artisan and Fabrication Lab is an important factor in their success," said Leah Jamieson, the John A. Edwardson Dean of Engineering.
 "Through this collaboration, we are able to expand the use of this space to help more Purdue innovators bring their inventions to life.
" Gary Bertoline, dean of the College of Technology, said expanding the hours could enhance the student learning experience and entrepreneurial spirit.
 "The Purdue community is expressing a stronger interest in forming their own companies, and using the fabrication lab will not only help entrepreneurs, but yields the opportunity to work directly with other like-minded Purdue entrepreneurs," he said.
 * An innovation lab where students can project their designs on a floor-to-ceiling whiteboard from photos taken on smartphones or other electronic devices.
 * A prototyping studio that includes 3-D printers that can print working tools like a wrench or other objects. Starting with a CAD drawing, innovators can go from concept to a physical model with the 3- D printers in a matter of hours.
 * An artisan laboratory for working with wood, plastics and similar materials, using a CNC router, wood saws, a drill press and large layout tables and an area for working on electronic prototypes such as building circuits, wire harnesses and working with electronic instrumentation.
 * A fabrication laboratory that houses computer numerical control lathes and mills, a water-jet cutting system, welding setups, horizontal and vertical band saws, a drill press, and layout tables where users can begin assembling parts.
 * A demonstration studio that houses six CAD/CAM stations where innovators can design parts to be built in the Artisan and Fabrication Lab and generate programs that run the computer numerical control machines.
 The stations also have a computer numerical control machine interface to generate simulations of the parts innovators will create in the computer numerical control machine.
 For more information on the Artisan and Fabrication Lab, visit https://engineering.purdue.edu/aflapps/ Gary Bertoline, 765-494-2552, 
bertoline@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/lafayette-ywca-program-wins-purdue-award-.html
<Content> Lafayette YWCA program wins Purdue award 
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The YWCA of Greater Lafayette Domestic Violence Intervention and Prevention program has received the 12th annual Purdue University Inspiring Families and Building Communities Award.
 The award, given by the College of Health and Human Sciences, honors organizations that have directly impacted a community and have improved the well-being of Indiana families.
 The program will receive $1,200 cash and a certificate. Two other programs, Monroe County's G.O.A.L. (Get Onboard Active Living) and Bartholomew County's Family School Partners (FSP), also were recognized and will receive $500 each.
 The YWCA of Greater Lafayette Domestic Violence Intervention and Prevention program provides shelter to women and their children who are victims of domestic violence in the rural six-county area of Tippecanoe, Benton, Carroll, Clinton, Warren and White counties.
 It provides intensive case management services to assist women in the shelter with locating housing, employment, child care and emotional support.
 Other comprehensive services that are offered include food, clothing, legal, medical and mental health. The program also staffs a 24-hour crisis line, and staff members offer a variety of community presentations, education programs, support groups and trainings to community, social service and law enforcement agencies.
 Get Onboard Active Living is a free, family-focused community approach to promote healthy lifestyles and decrease childhood obesity by providing children and their families education and support in nutrition, exercise, behavior and community resources.
 Physicians refer children, who are at or above the 85th percentile in age and gender specific Body Mass Index charts, to the 12-week program.
 The program that focuses on teaching lifelong changes for an active lifestyle is based on a nutrition, activity and behavioral curriculum, and is partnered with the Indiana University Health Bloomington Hospital, the IU Department of Health and Kinesiology and Monroe County YMCA.
 Family School Partners helps prepare children for kindergarten by providing parents with home resources and education materials so they can help their children be school ready.
 Resources focus on developing skills in literacy, language, numbers and motor skills. Information, support and assistance also are provided to the families to help them be involved in community educational activities and preschool programs.
 The program also has added more bilingual parent educators to its staff to help with the growing number of Hispanic families in the community.
 Sources: Denise M. Buhrmester, director of communications for the College of Health and Human Sciences, 765-496-3663, dmbuhmester@purdue.edu
 Angie Abbott, program leader for the College of Health and Human Sciences extension, 765-496-2488, abbottar@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/late-blight-disease-found-on-indiana-tomato-samples.html
<Content> Late blight disease found on Indiana tomato samples
 The leaves of tomato plants with late blight show brownish spots. (Purdue Department of Botany and Plant Pathology photo/Janna Beckerman) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Late blight was confirmed this week on several tomato samples from Tippecanoe County in west-central Indiana, leading the Purdue University Plant and Pest Diagnostic Laboratory to urge growers to inspect their plants for the destructive disease.
 Symptoms of late blight, caused by the fungal-like organism Phytophthora infestans, include olive green to brown spots on leaves with slightly fuzzy-white fungal growth on the underside when conditions have been humid, such as in the early morning or after rain.
 The lesion border sometimes is yellow or has a water-soaked appearance. Brown to blackish lesions also develop on upper stems, and brown spots develop on tomato fruit.
 The disease can spread quickly in tomato and potato plantings in cool and wet conditions. Its spread is slowed by hot, sunny weather.
 "All growers should assume their crops may eventually be affected and thus should be on a weekly schedule to both thoroughly inspect their potato and tomato plantings and apply fungicides if the weather remains cool and cloudy," Tom Creswell, PPDL director, and senior plant disease diagnostician Gail Ruhl advised on the 
PPDL's website. They said infected plants in home gardens should be removed immediately and either burned or put in a plastic bag for disposal.
 The upper stems of tomato plants infected with late blight develop dark lesions. (Purdue Department of Botany and Plant Pathology photo/Janna Beckerman) 
Download Photo "Do not compost affected plants, as spores will spread from this infected debris to other healthy tomato plants," they said.
 Because there are many similar diseases on tomato leaves, identification of late blight requires examination by microscope, they said.
 Samples can be submitted for analysis to Plant and Pest Diagnostic Laboratory, LSPS-Room 101, Purdue University, 915 W. State St.
, West Lafayette, IN 47907-2054. More information on late blight is available in the Purdue Extension publication Late Blight on Tomato and Potato
 at http://www.extension.purdue.edu/extmedia/BP/BP-80-W.pdf. Commercial growers can benefit from Purdue Extension's publication Midwest Vegetable Production Guide for Commercial Growers 2013
, which includes disease control measures. It is available through The Education Store at https://mdc.itap.purdue.edu/item.asp?Item_Number=ID-56
. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/layered-2-d-nanocrystals-promising-new-semiconductor.html
<Content> Layered '2-D nanocrystals' promising new semiconductor
 Researchers are developing a new type of semiconductor technology, pictured here, for future computers and electronics based on "two-dimensional nanocrystals.
" The material is layered in sheets less than a nanometer thick that could replace today's silicon transistors. (Birck Nanotechnology Center, Purdue University) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Researchers are developing a new type of semiconductor technology for future computers and electronics based on "two-dimensional nanocrystals" layered in sheets less than a nanometer thick that could replace today's transistors.
 The layered structure is made of a material called molybdenum disulfide, which belongs to a new class of semiconductors - metal di-chalogenides - emerging as potential candidates to replace today's technology, complementary metal oxide semiconductors, or CMOS.
 New technologies will be needed to allow the semiconductor industry to continue advances in computer performance driven by the ability to create ever-smaller transistors.
 It is becoming increasingly difficult, however, to continue shrinking electronic devices made of conventional silicon-based semiconductors.
 "We are going to reach the fundamental limits of silicon-based CMOS technology very soon, and that means novel materials must be found in order to continue scaling," said 
Saptarshi Das, who has completed a doctoral degree, working with Joerg Appenzeller, a professor of electrical and computer engineering and scientific director of nanoelectronics at Purdue's 
Birck Nanotechnology Center. "I don't think silicon can be replaced by a single material, but probably different materials will co-exist in a hybrid technology.
" The nanocrystals are called two-dimensional because the materials can exist in the form of extremely thin sheets with a thickness of 0.7 nanometers, or roughly the width of three or four atoms.
 Findings show that the material performs best when formed into sheets of about 15 layers with a total thickness of 8-12 nanometers.
 The researchers also have developed a model to explain these experimental observations. Findings are appearing this month as a cover story in the journal Rapid Research Letters.
 The paper was co-authored by Das and Appenzeller, who also have co-authored a paper to be presented during the annual Device Research Conference at the University of Notre Dame from June 23-26.
 "Our model is generic and, therefore, is believed to be applicable to any two-dimensional layered system," Das said. Molybdenum disulfide is promising in part because it possesses a bandgap, a trait that is needed to switch on and off, which is critical for digital transistors to store information in binary code.
 Analyzing the material or integrating it into a circuit requires a metal contact. However, one factor limiting the ability to measure the electrical properties of a semiconductor is the electrical resistance in the contact.
 The researchers eliminated this contact resistance using a metal called scandium, allowing them to determine the true electronic properties of the layered device.
 Their results have been published in the January issue of the journal Nano Letters with doctoral students Hong-Yan Chen and Ashish Verma Penumatcha as the other co-authors.
 Transistors contain critical components called gates, which enable the devices to switch on and off and to direct the flow of electrical current.
 In today's chips, the length of these gates is about 14 nanometers, or billionths of a meter. The semiconductor industry plans to reduce the gate length to 6 nanometers by 2020.
 However, further size reductions and boosts in speed are likely not possible using silicon, meaning new designs and materials will be needed to continue progress.
 The research was funded by the National Science Foundation. Note to Journalists: An electronic copy of the research paper is available from Emil Venere, 765-494-4709, 
venere@purdue.edu The two-dimensional layered semiconducting di-chalcogenides are emerging as promising candidates for post-Si-CMOS applications owing to their excellent electrostatic integrity and the presence of a finite energy bandgap, unlike graphene.
 However, in order to unravel the ultimate potential of these materials, one needs to investigate different aspects of carrier transport.
 In this Letter, we present the first comprehensive experimental study on the dependence of carrier mobility on the layer thickness of back-gated multilayer MoS
2 field-effect transistors. We observe a non-monotonic trend in the extracted effective field-effect mobility with layer thickness, which is of relevance for the design of high-performance devices.
 We also discuss a detailed theoretical model based on Thomas–Fermi charge screening and interlayer coupling in order to explain our experimental observations.
 Our model is generic and, therefore, is believed to be applicable to any two-dimensional layered system. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/lechtenberg-named-purdues-acting-provost.html
<Content> Lechtenberg named Purdue's acting provost
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Victor Lechtenberg, who has held several key leadership positions over four decades at Purdue, will be the university's acting provost officials announced Thursday (July 12).
 Lechtenberg's appointment is effective Monday (July 16) when Timothy D. Sands, executive vice president for academic affairs and provost, will become acting president.
 Sands will serve in that position until January, when Indiana Gov. Mitchell E. Daniels Jr. becomes the university's 12th president.
 "I am excited to have the opportunity to work with Tim Sands and others in the provost's office to help ensure a smooth transition until Gov.
 Daniels becomes president," Lechtenberg said. "With his vast experience at Purdue, including serving as interim provost just a few years ago, Vic is perfect for this position," Sands said.
 Lechtenberg currently is special assistant to the president and director of the Center for Regional Development. He joined the Purdue faculty in 1971 as a professor of agronomy.
 He taught crop science and conducted research on forage and biomass crops until 1982. From 1982-1993, Lechtenberg served as associate director of agricultural research programs and as executive associate dean of agriculture.
 He was dean of Purdue Agriculture from 1993-2004. From 2004-2011, Lechtenberg served as vice provost for engagement, a position that was established in 2001.
 He was interim provost from 2007-2008, and from 2008-2009 was interim vice president for governmental relations. Lechtenberg served as chair of the U.S.
 Department of Agriculture's national Agricultural Research, Extension, Education and Economics Advisory Board from 1996-2002. In that capacity, he provided written testimony on biosecurity for the U.S.
 Senate. He is a Fellow of the American Society of Agronomy and the Crop Science Society of America. He is a past president of the Council for Agricultural Science and Technology, an organization of 30 scientific societies and associations relating to agriculture.
 In recognition of his impact on the state of Indiana, Lechtenberg received the Indiana Economic Development Corporation's (IEDC) 2009 Accelerate Indiana Award.
 He was recognized as the IEDC's best resource for connecting Indiana's strong academic culture with that of the business world. 
In April, Lechtenberg received the inaugural Morrill Award, given by Purdue for members of the faculty who have demonstrated excellence in teaching, research and engagement missions.
 The Office of Engagement puts Purdue resources to work to address issues affecting the state, nation and world's prosperity and quality of life.
 Areas of focus include economic development, P-12 education, community service and lifelong learning. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/legal-levels-of-atrazine-alter-neuroendocrine,-reproductive-genes-in-zebrafish.html
<Content> Legal levels of atrazine alter neuroendocrine, reproductive genes in zebrafish
 A Purdue study found that an agricultural herbicide alters reproductive and neuroendocrine genes during embryonic development in fish, a finding that will help establish a genetic profile to determine atrazine's specific effects, according to Jennifer Freeman, an assistant professor of toxicology in the School of Health Sciences.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University study found an agricultural herbicide alters reproductive and neuroendocrine genes during embryonic development in fish, a finding that will help establish a genetic profile to determine atrazine's specific effects.
 "The exact connection to health outcomes is not defined, but we found gene alterations in our animal model when exposed to the level of atrazine that is deemed safe for drinking water," said 
Jennifer Freeman, an assistant professor of toxicology in the School of Health Sciences. "Also of concern was an increase in head length in the study's young zebrafish when exposed to low doses of this widely used herbicide.
" The federally approved amount of atrazine is 3 parts per billion in drinking water. The amount is currently under review by the Environmental Protection Agency because the herbicide is considered an endocrine disrupting chemical and potential carcinogen.
 While atrazine is confirmed by many animal studies as harmful to endocrine systems, its specific effects are still unknown, Freeman said.
 Atrazine is used to kill broadleaf and grassy weeds in crops, such as corn, especially in the Midwest. The chemical is sometimes used on residential lawns in the Southeast.
 This study, partially funded by the National Institutes of Health and published by Toxicological Sciences journal, focused on exact gene changes.
 The researchers tested atrazine at three levels, 0.3 ppb, 3 ppb and 30 ppb, by exposing developing zebrafish embryos. The 3 ppb level is the current safe level in drinking water, and the larger amount of atrazine tested represents what a worker may be exposed to or may be present in surface water.
 By using the zebrafish model the researchers were able to focus on the 72-hour embryonic development time, which mirrors human prenatal development.
 The researchers started by evaluating the more than 35,000 genes in the zebrafish's genome. They found that two genes, CYP17A1 and 
SAMHD1, were changed in all three treatments. CYP17A1 plays a role in biosynthesis of steroid hormones and the conversion of androgens to estrogen, and 
SAMHD1 controls immune function. Also of concern was that 42 of the genes, including CYP17A1 and SAMHD1, were affected in the 30 ppb treatments as well as in the 3 ppb treatment.
 The LH gene, which produces the hormone that triggers ovulation, is another example of an affected gene at both 3 ppb and 30 ppb treatment levels.
 "There is a connection between the current legal level of atrazine and higher concentrations that need further study," Freeman said.
 "Specifically, we need to focus on the 3 ppb level to determine if it is safe or if these changes play a role in adverse health effects.
" The affected genes in this study correlate with findings in other studies, but Freeman and her team also identified a number of novel genes that are linked with functions previously associated with atrazine toxicity but for which genetic targets are not yet known.
 "Identification is just the beginning," Freeman said. "The goal is to understand the genetic pathways and how they are altered to see what's happening in the big picture.
" Another difference in the Purdue study was the increase in head length of the exposed zebrafish. "This was a subtle change for the fish larva at all exposure levels that we were able to see with finer measurements but not with the eye alone," Freeman said.
 "This morphological change in the zebrafish indicates that low levels of atrazine can stimulate development and alter the physiology of exposed individuals.
" The researchers also will be looking at the long-term effects of the fish exposed to these three atrazine levels as they grow and reproduce to link the developmental gene changes to adverse health outcomes.
 The EPA, working with the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act Scientific Advisory Panel, continues to evaluate scientific research regarding a potential link between atrazine and cancer in humans.
 According to the EPA website, "Even though the panel agreed with EPA that the epidemiologic evidence does not strongly suggest a link between atrazine and cancer, the panel did not agree that a lack of strong evidence justifies a conclusion that atrazine is not likely to be a human carcinogen.
" Freeman said continuing to investigate changes in genes associated with cancer is critical because there needs to be more information before determining if atrazine is a human carcinogen.
 "In our study, a number of gene changes were associated with cancer pathways, too, and while related gene pathways for cancer are involved, we are not saying atrazine causes cancer," she said.
 "We know these genes are changing in some way, and we need to do further targeted mechanistic studies to determine if there is a connection.
" The grants from the National Institutes of Health's National Center for Research Resources and National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences supporting this work are shared between Freeman and Maria Sepúlveda, an associate professor of forestry and natural resources.
 Gregory Weber, a doctoral student in health sciences, is the paper's lead author. Other authors are Samuel Peterson, a former health sciences graduate student, and Solange Lewis, a former postdoctoral researcher in forestry and natural resources.
 Note to Journalists: Journalists interested in a copy of the Toxicological Sciences journal article can contact Amy Patterson Neubert, at Purdue News Service, 765-494-9723, 
apatterson@purdue.edu Transcriptome Alterations Following Developmental Atrazine Exposure in Zebrafish are Associated with Disruption of Neuroendocrine and Reproductive System Function, 
 Cell Cycle, and Carcinogenesis Atrazine, a herbicide commonly applied to agricultural areas and a common contaminant of potable water supplies, is implicated as an endocrine disrupting chemical (EDC) and potential carcinogen.
 Studies show that EDCs can cause irreversible changes in tissue formation, decreased reproductive potential, obesity and cancer.
 The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency considers an atrazine concentration of ≤ 3 ppb in drinking water safe for consumption.
 The specific adverse human health effects associated with a developmental atrazine exposure and the underlying genetic mechanisms of these effects are not well defined.
 In this study, zebrafish embryos were exposed to a range of atrazine concentrations to establish toxicity. Morphological, transcriptomic and protein alterations were then assessed at 72 hours post fertilization (hpf) following developmental atrazine exposure at 0, 0.3, 3 or 30 ppb.
 A significant increase in head length was observed in all three atrazine treatments. Transcriptomic profiles revealed 21, 62 and 64 genes with altered expression in the 0.3, 3 and 30 ppb atrazine treatments, respectively.
 Altered genes were associated with neuroendocrine and reproductive system development, function and disease; cell cycle control; and carcinogenesis.
 There was a significant overlap (42 genes) between the 3 and 30 ppb differentially expressed gene lists with two of these genes (CYP17A1 and SAMHD1) present in all three atrazine treatments.
 Increased transcript levels were translated to significant up-regulation in protein expression. Overall this study identifies genetic and molecular targets altered in response to a developmental atrazine exposure to further define the biological pathways and mechanisms of toxicity.
 </Content>

screen, projection, tv
<Content> Competition Home - Life Sciences Business Plan Competition - Discovery Park at Purdue
 The Purdue Life Sciences Business Plan Competition aims to foster translational research and accelerate the commercialization of intellectual property in the life sciences arena.
 In doing so, the Competition exemplifies Purdue's spirit of Discovery-to-Delivery by generating entrepreneurship opportunities and driving economic development of life sciences research.
 Commercially-viable business plan entries in the life sciences arena stemming from university-based research are invited to participate in the Competition.
 Participating teams must represent an actual life sciences company that is no more than three years old; recent start-up life sciences companies are of particular interest.
 Winning companies are required to provide documentation that the company has clear access to the intellectual property. This stipulation is a method to ensure that the competition makes awards to companies and not just to exciting ideas.
 The Competition offers an impressive prize money and in-kind services package that teams will apply towards furthering and commercializing the respective research.
 Ample opportunities for networking among team members, judges, experts, and attendees will be provided during the competition, including an intimate feedback session between the finalist teams and judges.
 The finalists of the 2009 Life Science Business Plan Competition were asked to complete a brief exit survey to assess the contributions that participation in the competition made to the knowledge and skills of the company representatives.
 Of the 13 company respondents (some companies had more than one respondent), 100% of the finalists agreed or strongly agreed with the following statements.
 Participation in the Life Sciences Competition increased my ability to write an effective executive summary for my company. Participation in the Life Sciences Competition increased my ability to prepare an effective business plan.
 Participation in the Life Sciences Competition increased my ability to make an effective presentation about my company. Participation in the Life Sciences Competition improved my skills to represent my company to potential funders.
 Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship 1201 West State Street, West Lafayette, IN 47907-2057 | BDMCenter@purdue.edu | Phone: 765.494.1335
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/m4-sciences-signs-second-agreement-with-belgium-based-nv-bekaert-sa-to-expand-machining-technology-in-global-metals-market.html
<Content> M4 Sciences signs second agreement with Belgium-based NV Bekaert SA to expand machining technology in global metals market
 M4 Sciences signs second agreement with Belgium-based NV Bekaert SA to expand machining technology in global metals market M4 Sciences' TriboMAM drilling system and MAM technology enable increased performance and quality in computer-controlled mechanical drilling processes.
 M4 Sciences has licensed the MAM technology to NV Bekaert SA for a new application in metals processing. (M4 Sciences photo) Download Photo
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - James Mann, CEO of M4 Sciences LLC, announced that the company has signed a second technology sublicense agreement for its Modulation-Assisted Machining (MAM)® technology.
 Mann and officials from NV Bekaert SA, a global company with headquarters in Belgium, signed a long-term agreement that will give Bekaert access to M4 Sciences' MAM technology and related patents.
 This agreement follows on a similar arrangement in 2011. Bekaert is the world's largest independent manufacturer of drawn-steel wire products and a technological leader in steel wire transformation and coatings.
 With combined sales of €4.6 billion ($6.06 billion) in 2011, customers in more than 120 countries, 27,000 employees and a global production platform, Bekaert continuously seeks innovation opportunities, both in its product portfolio and its internal production processing and equipment design.
 "The additional technology sublicense agreement follows on the success of our previous co-development together with Bekaert," Mann said.
 "Bekaert will be implementing the modulation-assisted machining in a breakthrough manufacturing process, and the new agreement will expand their market applications.
" He added that the specific details of the technology, commercial applications and the agreement remain confidential. "Bekaert continues to lead their industry by adopting new technology.
 The new application demonstrates the economic potential for machining technology when adopted by an industry champion. A key to Bekaert's success with MAM was their pursuit of technical advantage, commitment to engineering excellence and early partnership with M4 Sciences," Mann said.
 The use of MAM in metals processing is a new field of application for the technology. M4 Sciences' MAM technology is the first of its kind in the machining industry.
 The technology was first integrated by M4 Sciences into a machining system, called the TriboMAM drilling system, which superimposes a low-frequency oscillation in drilling processes.
 The commercial introduction of the TriboMAM led to M4 Sciences receiving the 2010 R&D 100 Award and the 2011 Tibbetts Award from the U.S.
 Small Business Administration. The technology allows up to a 500 percent increase in drilling productivity and reduces manufacturing cost for high value-added precision drilling operations in computer-controlled machines.
 The technology developed by M4 Sciences was discovered at Purdue University's School of Industrial Engineering and licensed through the Purdue Research Foundation's Office of Technology Commercialization.
 Mann, also a co-author of the patents, co-founded M4 Sciences in 2005 at the Purdue Research Park "The extended collaboration between M4 Sciences and NV Bekaert SA is a clear indication of the global impact of Purdue University technologies," said Joseph B.
 Hornett, senior vice president, treasurer and COO of the Purdue Research Foundation, which manages the Purdue Research Park. M4 Sciences, based in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette, specializes in designing and developing advanced technologies and systems for ultra-precision machining.
 In 2011 M4 Sciences received the Tibbett's Award from the U.S. Small Business Administration for demonstrating exemplary performance in technology development and commercialization.
 M4 Sciences also received the 2010 R&D 100 award for product development. For more information visit http://www.m4sciences.com The 
Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation program in the country. The Purdue Research Park has four sites in the state of Indiana.
 They are Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette, Purdue Research Park at AmeriPlex-Indianapolis, Purdue Research Park of Northwest Indiana and the Purdue Research Park of Southeast Indiana.
 The nearly 200 companies located in the park network employ about 4,000 people. In 2004 the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette was named Outstanding Science/Research Park by the Association of University Research Parks.
 Joseph B. Hornett, 765-588-1040, jbhornett@prf.org</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/mathematics-alum-gives-1.5-million-to-endow-professorship.html
<Content> Mathematics alum gives $1.5 million to endow professorship
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue mathematics alumnus Andris Zoltners has given a $1.5 million gift to the university's College of Science
 to be used for a distinguished professorship. Through Purdue's Faculty Fund for Excellence, the gift will be matched with $1 million, bringing the total for the Andris A.
 Zoltners Distinguished Professorship to $2.5 million. "Gifts like Andris Zoltners' that allow us to recruit and recognize talented professors are especially important to our success," said acting President Timothy Sands.
 "A strong faculty is the key to both advances in research and a fulfilling educational experience for students. Gifts that support faculty go to the heart of our mission.
" Jeffrey Roberts, the Frederick L. Hovde Dean of the College of Science, said Zoltners' gift will help Purdue attract and retain a professor who excels in mathematics teaching and research.
 "Mathematics is critical not only to the STEM fields for which Purdue is internationally known, but, as Dr. Zoltners' business success illustrates, it also offers the solution to problems across all disciplines," he said.
 "A distinguished professorship in Dr. Zoltners' name is a fitting way to express pride in our alumnus and gratitude for his history of generosity to the Department of Mathematics and College of Science.
" Zoltners, of Chicago, applied his mathematics education to solving problems in the sales and marketing industry. He is a prominent author and expert in marketing models and sales force design and co-founder of ZS Associates, a global sales and marketing consulting firm in Chicago.
 He earned a master's degree in mathematics from Purdue in 1969 and in 1999 received a distinguished alumni award from the Department of Mathematics.
 After graduating from Purdue, Zoltners studied integer-programming algorithms and earned a doctoral degree from Carnegie Mellon University in 1973.
 In 1983 co-founded ZS Associates. Today ZS Associates has more than 1,000 employees and assists Global 500 companies and industries throughout the world.
 Zoltners also is a professor emeritus of marketing at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management, where he has been a faculty member for more than 30 years.
 In 2005 Zoltners was inducted into the Chicago Entrepreneurship Hall of Fame. Zoltners said he has not forgotten the impact Purdue professors had on him and hopes that strong influence and guidance will be retained for future generations of mathematicians.
 "To be competitive in world markets, the U.S. needs to produce the best educated scientists and mathematicians in the world," Zoltners said.
 "Our universities are still the best in the world at scientific education and research. I am hoping in a small way to continue to build this asset and enhance the leadership.
" The Faculty Fund for Excellence was established earlier this year to raise private gifts to endow new professorships. Gifts of $750,000 or more will be matched up to $1 million from $7.25 million in matching university funds designated for faculty investment.
 Andrew Shafer, director of advancement for Purdue's College of Science, 765-496-3525, aashafer@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/mathematics-alum-gives-1.5-million-to-endow-professorship.html
<Content> Mathematics alum gives $1.5 million to endow professorship
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue mathematics alumnus Andris Zoltners has given a $1.5 million gift to the university's College of Science
 to be used for a distinguished professorship. Through Purdue's Faculty Fund for Excellence, the gift will be matched with $1 million, bringing the total for the Andris A.
 Zoltners Distinguished Professorship to $2.5 million. "Gifts like Andris Zoltners' that allow us to recruit and recognize talented professors are especially important to our success," said acting President Timothy Sands.
 "A strong faculty is the key to both advances in research and a fulfilling educational experience for students. Gifts that support faculty go to the heart of our mission.
" Jeffrey Roberts, the Frederick L. Hovde Dean of the College of Science, said Zoltners' gift will help Purdue attract and retain a professor who excels in mathematics teaching and research.
 "Mathematics is critical not only to the STEM fields for which Purdue is internationally known, but, as Dr. Zoltners' business success illustrates, it also offers the solution to problems across all disciplines," he said.
 "A distinguished professorship in Dr. Zoltners' name is a fitting way to express pride in our alumnus and gratitude for his history of generosity to the Department of Mathematics and College of Science.
" Zoltners, of Chicago, applied his mathematics education to solving problems in the sales and marketing industry. He is a prominent author and expert in marketing models and sales force design and co-founder of ZS Associates, a global sales and marketing consulting firm in Chicago.
 He earned a master's degree in mathematics from Purdue in 1969 and in 1999 received a distinguished alumni award from the Department of Mathematics.
 After graduating from Purdue, Zoltners studied integer-programming algorithms and earned a doctoral degree from Carnegie Mellon University in 1973.
 In 1983 co-founded ZS Associates. Today ZS Associates has more than 1,000 employees and assists Global 500 companies and industries throughout the world.
 Zoltners also is a professor emeritus of marketing at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management, where he has been a faculty member for more than 30 years.
 In 2005 Zoltners was inducted into the Chicago Entrepreneurship Hall of Fame. Zoltners said he has not forgotten the impact Purdue professors had on him and hopes that strong influence and guidance will be retained for future generations of mathematicians.
 "To be competitive in world markets, the U.S. needs to produce the best educated scientists and mathematicians in the world," Zoltners said.
 "Our universities are still the best in the world at scientific education and research. I am hoping in a small way to continue to build this asset and enhance the leadership.
" The Faculty Fund for Excellence was established earlier this year to raise private gifts to endow new professorships. Gifts of $750,000 or more will be matched up to $1 million from $7.25 million in matching university funds designated for faculty investment.
 Andrew Shafer, director of advancement for Purdue's College of Science, 765-496-3525, aashafer@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/matrix-bio-options-metabolite-biomarker-technology-from-purdue-university-to-evaluate-opportunities-for-new-cancer-diagnostic-tests.html
<Content> Matrix-Bio options metabolite biomarker technology from Purdue University to evaluate opportunities for new cancer diagnostic tests
 Matrix-Bio options metabolite biomarker technology from Purdue University to evaluate opportunities for new cancer diagnostic tests
 FORT WAYNE, Ind. - Matrix-Bio Inc., a diagnostics company that uses metabolite profiling to detect cancer and other diseases, has signed an exclusive agreement with the Purdue Research Foundation optioning metabolite biomarker technology and eight patent applications to evaluate the commercial potential of cancer diagnostics tests based on the technologies.
 The optioned technologies include metabolite biomarkers for detecting esophageal, liver, pancreatic and colon cancer; for identifying liver cancer in patients with hepatitis C; and for predicting preoperative chemotherapy effectiveness for breast cancer treatment.
 Matrix-Bio's agreement is for one year with an option to extend the agreement. No other terms of the agreement were released. The new agreement builds on the existing master license agreement between Matrix-Bio and Purdue Research Foundation for breast cancer biomarkers and metabolite profiling technology developed by Dan Raftery, Matrix-Bio chief scientific officer and founder, while he was a faculty member of the Purdue University Department of Chemistry.
 Raftery is now director of the Northwest Metabolomics Research Center at the University of Washington in Seattle, and is also a member of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, one of the world's leading cancer research centers.
 Matrix-Bio CEO Eric Beier said the agreement will enable the company to significantly expand its pipeline of cancer detection and monitoring tests, further advancing the company's leadership in metabolomics-based cancer diagnostic technologies.
 "Metabolite profiling is an emerging field of diagnostics that looks at the changes in small molecule biomarkers in cells. Patterns of these metabolite biomarkers in the blood are altered when cancer is present," Beier said.
 "Dr. Raftery's technology identifies metabolic changes with very high sensitivity and specificity, and can detect various cancers in early, more treatable stages more accurately than currently available tests.
 Studies have also demonstrated that metabolite profiling can assist in monitoring cancer treatment." The announcement comes on the heels of an exclusive global licensing and marketing agreement for metabolomic biomarkers Matrix-Bio signed with Quest Diagnostics (NYSE: DGX), the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services.
 Under the agreement, Quest Diagnostics has the rights to use the Matrix-Bio biomarkers for the future, potential development of a clinical lab-developed test to aid in the detection of breast cancer recurrence.
 Quest Diagnostics also has the option to pursue an appropriate regulatory pathway for an in vitro diagnostic version of the test.
 Additional terms were not disclosed. Founded in 2006, Matrix-Bio Inc. is a life science company focused on the development and commercialization of advanced metabolite profiling-based blood tests for early cancer detection, recurrence detection, and therapy monitoring that offer greater accuracy, convenience, and lower cost than current testing methodologies.
 Matrix-Bio's patent-pending metabolite profiling technology has the potential to be leveraged to other applications for the early detection of disease and medical conditions.
 For information, visit www.matrix-bio.com. The Purdue Research Foundation is a private, nonprofit foundation created to advance the mission of Purdue University.
 Established in 1930, the foundation accepts gifts, administers trusts, funds scholarships and grants, and acquires property on behalf of Purdue.
 The foundation oversees the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization, which operates one of the most comprehensive technology transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 In the 1990s, the foundation was charged with helping the university in the realm of economic development. The foundation oversees the Purdue Research Park, which is the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 Steve Martin, Purdue Research Foundation, 765-588-3342, sgmartin@prf.org </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/matrix-bio-signs-metabolomics-biomarker-licensing-agreement-with-quest-diagnostics-for-development-of-breast-cancer-recurrence-test.html
<Content> Matrix-Bio signs metabolomics biomarker licensing agreement with Quest Diagnostics for development of breast cancer recurrence test
 Matrix-Bio signs metabolomics biomarker licensing agreement with Quest Diagnostics for development of breast cancer recurrence test
 FORT WAYNE and WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Matrix-Bio Inc., a diagnostics company that uses metabolite profiling to detect cancer and other diseases, has signed an exclusive global licensing and marketing agreement for metabolomic biomarkers with 
Quest Diagnostics (NYSE: DGX). Quest is the world's leading provider of diagnostic information services. Under the agreement, Quest will have the rights to use the biomarkers for the future potential development of a clinical laboratory-developed test to aid in the detection of breast cancer recurrence.
 The company plans to independently develop and validate the laboratory-developed test from its Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute in San Juan Capistrano, Calif.
, where it houses a research, development and laboratory center. The company will co-fund clinical studies with Matrix-Bio to demonstrate the clinical value of the test using the metabolomic biomarkers and, assuming successful validation, offer its own version of the test through the San Juan Capistrano laboratory and market the testing service in the United States and other countries.
 Quest Diagnostics also has the option to pursue an appropriate regulatory pathway for an in vitro diagnostic version of the test.
 Additional terms were not disclosed. Matrix-Bio has developed a technique that uses mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to identify metabolic changes occurring in cancerous cells.
 In 2010 Cancer Research, a peer-reviewed publication of the American Association of Cancer Research, published Matrix-Bio's findings, 
Early Detection of Recurrent Breast Cancer Using Metabolite Profiling. Using metabolite-profiling methods, Matrix-Bio's laboratory-developed test correctly predicted a recurrence of breast cancer an average of 13 months before clinical diagnosis and two times the sensitivity of the current standard tests involving immunoassays.
 "Our relationship with Matrix-Bio builds on Quest's leadership in oncology and mass spectrometry and moves us forward in the emerging field of metabolomic clinical diagnostics," said Jay Wohlgemuth, M.D.
, Quest's senior vice president, science and innovation. "It also delivers on a central tenet of our strategy to deliver a robust menu of services, in this case for breast cancer, which spans the continuum of care, from predisposition genetic testing to post-surgical monitoring.
" Commenting on the agreement, Matrix-Bio founder and chief scientific officer Dan Raftery, Ph.D., said collaboration with a company of the stature of Quest Diagnostics could advance the potential commercialization of a novel breast cancer recurrence test.
 "Since 2006 when we first started working on metabolite profiling as a cancer detection tool, we have had the ideal partner in mind to help bring this potentially life-saving technology to those at risk of cancer," Raftery said.
 "Licensing the biomarkers to Quest Diagnostics is a big step toward our goal to make improved and more efficient testing methods for diagnosing many forms of cancer available to physicians and patients.
 Quest has the people, processes and presence to bring a clinically valuable breast cancer recurrence test to market and, with it, hope to breast cancer survivors who want more accurate cancer recurrence monitoring.
" Matrix-Bio is developing additional biomarkers that may provide the basis for tests for other cancers utilizing its patent-pending VeraMarker™ metabolite profiling technology platform.
 Raftery founded Matrix-Bio while a professor of analytical and physical chemistry at Purdue University in West Lafayette, Ind., where he received entrepreneurial support from the Purdue Research Foundation Office of Technology Commercialization.
 Raftery is now a medical education and research endowed professor in the Department of Anesthesia and Pain Medicine and director of the Northwest Metabolomics Research Center at the University of Washington in Seattle.
 He is also a member of the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center (http://www.fhcrc.org) in Seattle. Raftery's work is supported by the National Institutes of Health and U.S.
 Department of Defense. Founded in 2006, Matrix-Bio Inc. is a life-science company focused on the development and commercialization of advanced metabolite profiling-based blood tests for early cancer detection, recurrence detection and therapy monitoring that offer greater accuracy, convenience and lower cost than current testing methodologies.
 Matrix-Bio's patent-pending metabolite profiling technology has the potential to be leveraged to other applications for the early detection of disease and medical conditions.
 For information, visit http://www.matrix-bio.com. Quest Diagnostics is the world's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services that patients and doctors need to make better healthcare decisions.
 The company offers the broadest access to diagnostic testing services through its network of laboratories and patient service centers, and provides interpretive consultation through its extensive medical and scientific staff.
 Quest Diagnostics is a pioneer in developing innovative diagnostic tests and advanced healthcare information technology solutions that help improve patient care.
 Additional company information is available at http://www.QuestDiagnostics.com. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/mcdonalds-ceo-to-speak-at-purdue-ag-alumni-fish-fry.html
<Content> McDonald's CEO to speak at Purdue Ag Alumni Fish Fry
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Don Thompson, president and CEO of McDonald's Corp., will be the featured speaker at the 2014 Purdue Agricultural Alumni Association 
Fish Fry on Feb. 1 at the Indiana State Fairgrounds in Indianapolis. Thompson, a Purdue alumnus, will speak about the path he took from being a Purdue engineering graduate to his current position in leading the world's largest food service company, which employs 1.8 million people worldwide.
 He also will share a view into "the McDonald's you may not know," focusing on how the company maintains the quality of the food it serves to 69 million customers in 119 countries daily.
 "We're very excited to have Don Thompson as our featured speaker at the Purdue Ag Alumni Fish Fry," said Jay Akridge, Glenn W. Sample Dean of Purdue Agriculture.
 "He is an exceptional leader, a Boilermaker, a member of our Board of Trustees and CEO of the world's leading food service retailer.
 His message will be one our College of Agriculture alumni, friends and stakeholders won't want to miss." Thompson has helped drive business results and global strategic innovation across McDonald's since joining the company in 1990.
 He has held key leadership positions in the company's largest business segment - McDonald's U.S.A. - including as division president, chief operating officer and president.
 In 2010, Thompson was appointed president and COO and became CEO two years later. Thompson serves on the boards of Purdue University
, McDonald's Corp., Ronald McDonald House Charities, Catalyst and Chicago's Northwestern Memorial Hospital. He also is a member of the Civic Committee of the Commercial Club, The Economic Club, World Business Chicago and the Arthur M.
 Brazier Foundation. Thompson received a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from Purdue and an honorary doctorate in science from Excelsior College.
 Tickets will go on sale Nov. 1 for $25 each and tables of 10 for $250. Bus transportation will be available from West Lafayette, and advance parking permits for the fairgrounds are also for sale.
 Tickets can be ordered by phone at 765-494-8593 or by downloading the order form at www.ag.purdue.edu/agalumni. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/mechanical-engineering-alum-gives-gift-for-professorship,-celebrates-daniels-arrival.html
<Content> Mechanical engineering alum gives gift for professorship, celebrates Daniels' arrival
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University College of Engineering alumnus has given a gift under the Faculty Excellence Challenge Match program.
 The program is designed to endow new professorships through private gifts from $750,000 to $1 million that are matched dollar for dollar by the university.
 Purdue alumnus Milton B. Hollander is giving $750,000 toward The Betty Ruth and Milton B. Hollander Family Professorship in Mechanical Engineering.
 "The entire Hollander family applauds and congratulates Mitch Daniels as the 12th president of Purdue University," Hollander said.
 "We are honored that one of the Daniels administration's first announcements is The Betty Ruth and Milton B. Hollander Family Professorship in Mechanical Engineering.
" Milton Hollander's wife, Betty Ruth, was founder, chairman and CEO of Omega Engineering Inc. Her many philanthropic contributions to Purdue include the atrium of The Roger B.
 Gatewood Wing in honor of her husband. She spoke about her desire to fund a professorship before her death in 2011 and continues to be the inspiration for the Hollander family's dedication to philanthropy, Milton Hollander said.
 Milton Hollander, who earned a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from Purdue, is CEO of River Bend Science and Technology Park, offering research and development centers and high-tech manufacturing facilities and office space powered by the region's most advanced green technology.
 He holds more than 200 patents worldwide. His breakthroughs are in welding, energy storage, food processing, automation, process measurement and control, and other areas of advanced science, technology, industry and defense.
 His invention of flywheel-based friction welding sustains drilling rigs miles below the Earth's surface while his advances in infrared temperature measurement operate on probes millions of miles away in space.
 The College of Engineering also received an anonymous $1 million gift to help fund a professorship in chemical engineering. Previously, the college had received two gifts through the Faculty Excellence Challenge Match.
 The Geoff Crowley family gave $750,000 for a professorship in engineering education, and Gerald and Sarah Skidmore gave $750,000 for a professorship in chemical engineering.
 "These generous gifts from our accomplished alumni are especially critical as the college embarks on a bold plan for strategic growth," said Leah Jamieson, the John A.
 Edwardson Dean of Engineering. "Named and distinguished professorships help us recruit, reward and retain the very best educators and researchers.
" Source: Leah Jamieson, 765-494-5346, lhj@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/media-advisory-candlelight-vigil,-commemorative-address-to-celebrate-dr.-martin-luther-king-jr..html
<Content> Candlelight vigil, commemorative address to celebrate Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A candlelight vigil at 6 p.m. Thursday (Jan. 24) will precede the annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Commemorative Address.
 Participants in the vigil will meet at the Black Cultural Center and march to Loeb Playhouse in Stewart Center. The commemorative address will be at 7 p.m.
 Melissa V. Harris-Perry, host of MSNBC's "Melissa Harris-Perry" and a professor of political science at Tulane University, will give the address.
 The Purdue Dreamer Award and the Purdue Dream Teacher Award K-12 also will be presented at the MLK lecture. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/medicare-prescription-notice-sent-in-error.html
<Content> Medicare prescription notice sent in error
 Faculty and staff who are not eligible for Medicare should disregard the notice they received recently from Human Resources about optional Medicare prescription drug coverage.
 The campus mail notice should have been sent only to faculty and staff who are eligible for Medicare -- generally this would be those age 65 and older.
 Human Resources apologizes for the confusion caused by the notice. Faculty and staff who have questions may contact the Human Resources Service Center at 49-42222 or 
hr@purdue.edu.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/metasurfaces-to-usher-in-new-optical-technologies.html
<Content> 'Metasurfaces' to usher in new optical technologies
 This schematic view of a nanoantenna array (A), at left, is an example of new plasmonic metasurfaces that are promising for various advances, including a possible "hyperlens" that could make optical microscopes 10 times more powerful.
 At right (B) is a "hyperbolic metasurface," a tiny metallic grating for enhancing "quantum emitters," which could make possible future quantum information systems far more powerful than today's computers.
 (Birck Nanotechnology Center, Purdue University) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – New optical technologies using "metasurfaces" capable of the ultra-efficient control of light are nearing commercialization, with potential applications including advanced solar cells, computers, telecommunications, sensors and microscopes.
 The metasurfaces could make possible "planar photonics" devices and optical switches small enough to be integrated into computer chips for information processing and telecommunications, said Alexander Kildishev, associate research professor of electrical and computer engineering at Purdue University.
 "I think we know enough at this point that we can realistically start to develop prototypes of devices for some applications," he said.
 The promise of metasurfaces is described in an article appearing Friday (March 15) in the journal Science. The article was co-authored by Kildishev; Alexandra Boltasseva, an assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering; and Vladimir M.
 Shalaev, scientific director of nanophotonics at Purdue's Birck Nanotechnology Center and a distinguished professor of electrical and computer engineering.
 The metasurfaces are extremely thin films of "metamaterials," assemblies that contain features, patterns or elements such as tiny antennas or alternating layers of oxides that enable an unprecedented control of light.
 Under development for about 15 years, the metamaterials owe their unusual potential to precision design on the scale of nanometers.
 Optical nanophotonic circuits might harness clouds of electrons called "surface plasmons" to manipulate and control the routing of light in devices too tiny for conventional lasers.
 The metasurfaces are typically created using electron-beam lithography or focused ion beam milling and may also be made of materials that are compatible with existing semiconductor manufacturing and industrial processes.
 "That is one of the attractive features of metasurfaces," Kildishev said. "If we use certain types of plasmonic material, they can be integrated into existing semiconductor processes, which makes them practical for commercialization.
" Plasmonic metamaterials are promising for various advances, including a possible "hyperlens" that could make optical microscopes 10 times more powerful; advanced chemical sensors; new types of light-harvesting systems for more efficient solar cells; computers and consumer electronics that use light instead of electronic signals to process information; and a cloak of invisibility.
 "If you apply voltage the optical properties of graphene change, and if you couple a graphene layer with a metasurface, these properties then change dramatically," Kildishev said.
 Metasurfaces could make it possible to use single photons – the tiny particles that make up light – for switching and routing in future computers.
 While using photons would dramatically speed up computers and telecommunications, conventional photonic devices cannot be miniaturized because the wavelength of light is too large to fit in tiny components needed for integrated circuits.
 Nanostructured metamaterials, however, could make it possible to reduce the size of photons and the wavelength of light, allowing the creation of new types of nanophotonic devices, Shalaev said.
 Some of the new materials may have applications involving near-infrared light, the range of the spectrum critical for telecommunications and fiberoptics.
 Other materials also might work for light in the spectrum's visible range. Unlike natural materials, metamaterials may possess an index of refraction less than one or less than zero.
 Refraction occurs as electromagnetic waves, including light, bend when passing from one material into another. It causes the bent-stick-in-water effect, which occurs when a stick placed in a glass of water appears crooked when viewed from the outside.
 Being able to create materials with an index of refraction that's negative or between one and zero promises a range of potential breakthroughs in a new field called transformation optics.
 Development of new technologies using metamaterials has been hindered by two major limitations: too much light is "lost," or absorbed by metals such as silver and gold contained in the metamaterials, and the materials need to be more precisely tuned so that they possess the proper index of refraction.
 Ultrathin metasurfaces made of novel low-loss plasmonic material components is a promising way to address this challenge. Researchers are working to replace silver and gold in materials that are created either by making semiconductors more metallic by adding metal impurities to them; or adding non-metallic elements to metals, in effect making them less metallic.
 Examples of these materials include transparent conducting oxides and titanium nitride, Boltasseva said. Note to Journalists: A copy of the article is available by contacting the Science Press Package team at 202-326-6440, 
scipak@aaas.org Metamaterials, or engineered materials with rationally designed, subwavelength-scale building blocks, allow us to control the behavior of physical fields in optical, microwave, radio, acoustic, heat transfer and other applications with flexibility and performance that are unattainable with naturally available materials.
 In turn, metasurfaces - planar, ultrathin metamaterials - extend these capabilities even further. Optical metasurfaces offer the fascinating possibility of controlling light with surface-confined, flat components.
 In the planar photonics concept, it is the reduced dimensionality of the optical metasurfaces that enables new physics and, therefore, leads to functionalities and applications that are distinctly different from those achievable with bulk, multilayer metamaterials.
 Here, we review the progress in developing optical metasurfaces that has occurred over the past few years with an eye toward the promising future directions in the field.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/mfri-hosting-third-annual-stand-down-for-homeless-veterans.html
<Content> MFRI hosting third annual Stand Down for homeless veterans
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - November is Homeless Awareness Month, and the Military Family Research Institute (MFRI) at Purdue University will hold a Stand Down for veterans and their families in Lafayette on Saturday (Nov.
 9). The local event, which has been held annually for three years, will be from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Tippecanoe County Fairgrounds.
 The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development estimates that nearly 76,000 veterans were homeless on any given night in 2009.
 MFRI's Stand Down is a collaborative effort among local businesses, nonprofit organizations and community members. "Our troops are returning from deployments abroad, but the fight to end homelessness among our veterans is far from over," said MFRI assistant director Martina Sternberg.
 "Our sponsors and service providers recognize that. By participating in Stand Down, they let area veterans facing difficult times know they are not alone.
" More than 400 homeless, almost homeless and at-risk veterans and family members attended last year's Stand Down in Lafayette. They received benefits which included employment and housing opportunities, résumé-writing assistance, information pertaining to VA benefits, health care, personal and spiritual counseling, groceries, free calls, clothing, hygiene kits, haircuts, backpacks, bus and phone cards, and home mortgage assistance.
 The first Stand Down was created during the Vietnam War to provide military members time away from the battlefield. Early Stand Downs allowed military members to rest from combat, take care of personal hygiene, enjoy warm meals, receive medical and dental care, and enjoy camaraderie in a safe environment.
 The first Stand Down for homeless veterans was organized in 1988 by a group of San Diego Vietnam veterans, according to the National Center for Homeless Veterans.
 Similar events have since spread nationwide to give vets a rest from the combat of homelessness. The Lafayette event is part of the area's Veteran Appreciation Week.
 Volunteers are still needed. Those interested should contact Sternberg at msternbe@purdue.edu. Source: Martina Sternberg, 765-496-3403, 
msternbe@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/mild-weather-leads-to-fewer-pests,-unusual-damage-to-crops.html
<Content> Mild weather leads to fewer pests, unusual damage to crops
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Lower insect populations have led to minor crop damage this summer, but a Purdue Extension entomologist says farmers should still watch for anomalies when scouting.
 Part of what has caused fewer insects has been the weather. Indiana temperatures have been mild, and rainfall has been timely for most of the growing season.
 Most importantly, the crops had good conditions for growth during the critical period just after planting. "We've had a good summer for growing conditions," Christian Krupke said.
 "We've had rain, and plants just aren't as vulnerable." Some insect pests that still have caused some damage to Indiana crops this summer are bean leaf beetles in soybeans and armyworms in corn.
 Krupke has received reports of bean leaf beetle populations from all over the state, but the damage is more severe in northern counties.
 Some reports have described minor pod scarring, which isn't of much concern. Other reports, however, have included pods clipped from stems.
 "It's weird because you usually don't see the pods fall off," he said. "The beetles often feed on pods, but not on the peduncle, which connects the pod to the stem.
" Bean leaf beetles are usually yellow, tan or red in color and about one-quarter inch long. Their distinguishing feature is a black triangular mark on the wing covers directly behind the neck area, or thorax.
 If growers find bean leaf beetle damage in their fields, they should consider treating if the pods are still green, beetles are actively feeding and about 5-10 percent or more of the pods are damaged.
 More information on the bean leaf beetle can be found at http://extension.entm.purdue.edu/fieldcropsipm/insects/bean-leaf-beetle.php
 Krupke said entomologists had anticipated more soybean aphid colonization by this time but have not seen many fields over the 250-aphid per plant threshold so far.
 Even so, he encouraged producers to continue scouting for the small, greenish-yellow pest. One of the biggest surprises has been finding late-season armyworm damage to cornfields in northern Indiana.
 The pest doesn't pose much threat to corn yields this late in plant development, but it's unusual to see armyworm damage this late.
 "It's a curiosity," Krupke said. "We worry about it in the spring when plants are tiny. When the plants are large, the worms are just feeding on the leaves so there's no damage on the important part - the ear.
" In general, he said no control of late-season true armyworm is required in corn. Yield will not be affected by loss of lower leaves and armyworms do not feed on the ear.
 With that said, Krupke emphasized that it is important to be sure the infestation is true armyworm and not fall armyworm. The latter usually feeds in the upper kernels of the corn ear in addition to the leaves.
 A full-grown true armyworm larva is dull-green to brown in color with stripes running the length of its body, while the adult armyworm is a pale brown moth with a white dot in the center of each forewing.
 Farmers with insect damage can find more management recommendations on Purdue Extension's Field Crops Integrated Pest Management website at 
http://extension.entm.purdue.edu/fieldcropsipm/</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/milky-way-gas-cloud-causes-multiple-images-of-distant-quasar.html
<Content> Milky Way Gas Cloud Causes Multiple Images of Distant Quasar
 For the first time, astronomers have seen the image of a distant quasar split into multiple images by the effects of a cloud of ionized gas in our own Milky Way Galaxy.
 Such events were predicted as early as 1970, but the first evidence for one now has come from the National Science Foundation's 
 Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA) radio telescope system. Purdue University physics professor Matthew Lister led the team that made this discovery.
 For full National Radio Astronomy Observatory release go to http://www.nrao.edu/pr/2013/quasarcloud/template2009.shtm </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/molecularhub-gives-scientific-information-on-fast-moving-diseases.html
<Content> MolecularHUB gives scientific information on fast-moving diseases
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A scientific gateway website that will provide molecular and genetic information on infectious and emerging diseases has been released by Purdue University.
 The MolecularHUB site was announced Wednesday (Oct. 24) at the annual meeting of the Association for Molecular Pathology (AMP), which is being held in Long Beach, Calif.
 James McGlothlin, a Purdue associate professor of health sciences and director of the site, said MolecularHUB will actively foster an environment of co-creation and collaboration.
 The goal of the site is to expand the current knowledge base of genetic markers, gene sequencing and molecular testing related to infectious diseases, chronic diseases and emerging diseases to help speed the identification and treatment of these diseases.
 "With this site we have the opportunity to improve public health care and patient outcomes by providing free, easy access to the latest information," McGlothlin said.
 "The half-life of information in this field is very short; it's one of the fastest moving disciplines in modern science. So this site will keep professionals up-to-date with the latest scientific information.
" The site, http://www.molecularHUB.org, is exclusively sponsored by BD (Becton Dickinson and Company), a Fortune 500 medical supply company.
 "The goal is involve anyone working with molecular diagnostics so we can combine and leverage resources and capabilities," McGlothlin said.
 "This will allow us to standardize work practices and provide training and programs that will enhance scientific knowledge in this field.
" Gregory Meehan, vice president for diagnostic systems and molecular diagnostics at BD Diagnostics, one of three divisions of BD, said the site has the potential to bring together medical and scientific communities.
 "The valuable information and experiences of the global laboratory, scientific and academic community will come together through MolecularHUB in developing and sharing best practices across the spectrum of molecular-based diagnostic applications, laboratory efficiency, and clinical and economic outcomes," Meehan said.
 The site is built on the Purdue-developed platform HUBzero, which has been used by more than 40 scientific, engineering and medical gateway sites as resources for scientific communities.
 "MolecularHUB will be accessible to the more than 600,000 visitors of other hubs each year," McGlothlin said. "This will foster other opportunities for synergistic collaborations among disciplines such as engineering, laboratory design and ergonomics, and drug delivery.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/moore,-jimerson-to-receive-purdues-dreamer-award.html
<Content> Moore, Jimerson to receive Purdue's Dreamer Award
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Jesse Moore, director of supplier diversity, and Jackie Jimerson, who retired in 2012 as director of multicultural programs for the College of Pharmacy, will receive Purdue University's 2012 Dreamer Award during a ceremony at 7 p.m.
 Thursday (Jan. 24) in Stewart Center's Loeb Playhouse. Also during the ceremony, which is part of the keynote lecture of Purdue's celebration of the life and legacy of Dr.
 Martin Luther King Jr., Amber Ma will receive the 2013 MLK Purdue Dream Teacher Award. The Dreamer Award, established in 2004, is given annually to an individual or organization within the Purdue community whose contributions embody King's vision of service to others and furthers the university's commitment to diversity.
 "They are receiving the award for a lifetime of work," said Carolyn Johnson, director of the Diversity Resource Office at Purdue.
 "They have both demonstrated an active commitment, advocacy and application of the principles of equality, excellence and social responsibility that mirrors Dr.
 King’s vision of service to others and his dream of a society marked by equality for all." Moore is the first and only director of Purdue's Office of Supplier Diversity.
 The office was created in 2005 to help minority- and women-owned businesses work with the university. Greater Lafayette Commerce honored the office with the Diversity Roundtable 2010 Workforce Diversity Best Practices Award.
 Purdue is a founding member of the Supplier Diversity Coalition of Greater Lafayette, a group of companies in Greater Lafayette committed to expanding opportunities for diverse companies to do business in the community.
 Moore helped start Relationship to Partnerships Sessions at Purdue. The annual program brings diverse firms to campus to meet with Purdue buyers.
 The local companies - such as Caterpillar, Evonik, State Farm, Ivy Tech, Alcoa, Freitag-Weinhardt, Inc., Greater Lafayette Commerce, Vectren and Wabash National - also send their buyers and contracting staff to meet with the firms attending.
 In addition to his work at Purdue, Moore volunteers with the Hanna Community Center and the Greater Lafayette Indiana Black Expo.
 Jimerson earned bachelor's and master's degrees in education from Purdue. She joined the Purdue staff in 1979 as assistant dean of students and associate director of the Horizons program.
 In 1992 she became director of minority programs and senior associate director for the Office of Student Services in the College of Pharmacy.
 "This award means a great deal to me as it reflects student success and accomplishment," Jimerson said. "I'm grateful to receive this award but wish to acknowledge others who supported the goal and worked with me to enhance student success.
 This award applauds deans, faculty and staff who shared the commitment and aided in accomplishing the goal." The Purdue Dream Teacher Award, established in 2012, recognizes at K-12 teacher whose work embodies King's message of commitment to improving the lives of others.
 Ma has taught kindergarten at Edgelea Elementary School in Lafayette, Ind., for 11 years. She works with English Language Learners (ELL) children of immigrants.
 She supports her students' literacy in a language-rich environment. "Ms. Ma has pedagogical knowledge and skills to work with growing populations of students whose native language is not English and offers differentiated instruction to cater to the needs of all students," said Renee Thomas, co-chair of the Martin Luther King Jr.
 Commemorative Committee at Purdue. "She creates a comfortable learning environment in her class where students from diverse backgrounds feel included, respected and have equal opportunities to learn.
" The award will allow Ma to purchase Spanish-language materials for English Language Learners in her classroom and school. She has completed coursework for the English Language licensure program at Purdue.
 "Her work exemplifies the spirit of Martin Luther King Jr.'s message about the fierce urgency of now," Thomas said. "In her application, she wrote, 'His dream of then is my dream of now … justice for all of God's children and to ensure that all students, no matter their race, gender or ethnicity, are accepted, valued, and given the same opportunities to learn.
' " </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/more-2014-medical-plan-information-added-to-website.html
<Content> More 2014 medical plan information added to website
 Faculty and staff interested in Purdue's 2014 medical plan options will find a growing amount of information on the Purdue Benefits website at 
www.purdue.edu/benefits. Links to the 2014 information are at the top of the page. * The plan coverage chart has been expanded to show benefits for lab work, prescriptions and out-of-network care.
 * Scenarios showing how sample Purdue employees fare at various claim levels under each of the 2014 options now take into account prescription drugs.
 For more information on 2014 medical plan options, contact Human Resources at hr@purdue.edu, 49-42222 or www.purdue.edu/hrhelp. 
</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/nanoparticles,-ph-phoresis-could-improve-cancer-drug-delivery.html
<Content> Nanoparticles, 'pH phoresis' could improve cancer drug delivery
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Researchers have developed a concept to potentially improve delivery of drugs for cancer treatment using nanoparticles that concentrate and expand in the presence of higher acidity found in tumor cells.
 The concept involves using nanoparticles made of "weak polybases," compounds that expand when transported into environments mimicking tumor cells, which have a higher acidity than surrounding tissues.
 The researchers used sophisticated modeling to show how the particles would accumulate in regions of higher acidity and remain there long enough to delivery anticancer drugs.
 "This phenomenon, which we term pH phoresis, may provide a useful mechanism for improving the delivery of drugs to cancer cells in solid tumor tissues," said 
You-Yeon Won, an associate professor of chemical engineering at Purdue University. Solutions with a pH less than 7 are said to be acidic, and those with a higher pH are basic or alkaline.
 The pH phoresis concept hinges on using synthetic "polymer micelles," tiny drug-delivery spheres that harbor medications in their inner core and contain an outer shell made of a material that has been shown to expand dramatically as the pH changes from alkaline to acidic.
 A twofold size increase could result in a similar increase in the efficiency of drug delivery to tumors. "Such an effect would be a game changer by delivering the proper dose of anticancer drugs inside tumor cells," Won said.
 "This pH phoresis concept also could be combined readily within other established drug-delivery methodologies, making it potentially practical for medical application.
" The concept is described in a research paper that will appear in the Journal of Controlled Release on July 15, and an unedited version appeared online June 19.
 The paper was written by Won and doctoral student Hoyoung Lee. Findings showed how the micelles' expansion is optimized in the specific pH in tumor cells.
 The researchers demonstrated that the highest degree of micelle swelling in tumors needs to occur when there is a pH of about 7.0, plus or minus 0.5, for optimal delivery of drugs to tumor tissue.
 "Solid tumors have a significantly lower extracellular pH, about 6.5-6.9, compared to normal tissue, which has an average pH of 7.4," Won said.
 The weak polybases in the micelles contain molecules called amines, which are made of nitrogen and hydrogen atoms. The micelles swell at lower pH due to the increased "protonation," or the addition of protons to nitrogen atoms in the amines.
 Because the protons are positively charged, the like-charged amines repel each other, causing the nanoparticles to expand. The positive charge slows the movement of micelles out of tumor tissue, which would cause the nanoparticles to accumulate inside the tumor mass long enough to enter tumor cells and release anticancer drugs.
 "This concept is straightforward to understand, yet no one recognized it previously," Won said. "And it took us a while to put this description on a mathematical footing.
 To do that, we had to modify the famous Fick's first law diffusion equation." The law, derived by physician and physiologist Adolf Fick in 1855, describes how molecules diffuse from regions of high concentration to regions of low concentration.
 The micelles also are coated with protective varnish so that they might remain intact long enough to reach tumor sites, where they would expand and then biodegrade.
 More research is needed to determine how well the approach could enhance drug delivery, but the pH phoresis concept developed by Won and his student represents a step in developing nanomedicine techniques in drug delivery, he said.
 The research has been funded by the National Science Foundation and Purdue's School of Chemical Engineering. Support also came from the Global RNAi Carrier Initiative Program Fellowship from the Biomedical Research Institute of the Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST) and also the Research Fellowship from Purdue’s Bindley Bioscience Center.
 Note to Journalists: An electronic copy of the research paper is available from Emil Venere, (765) 494-4709, venere@purdue.edu 3
Center for Theragnosis, Biomedical Research Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology We propose a new concept describing how nanoparticles composed of weak polybases (such as polyamines) would behave when they are exposed to a pH gradient; weak polybase-containing particles will tend to accumulate preferentially in low pH regions under a pH gradient environment.
 This phenomenon, which we term pH phoresis, may provide a useful mechanism for improving the delivery of drugs to cancer cells in solid tumor tissues.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/nanosystems-industry-expert-to-deliver-discovery-lecture-at-purdue.html
<Content> Nanosystems industry expert to deliver Discovery Lecture at Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A nanotechnology industry leader will deliver a Discovery Lecture Series talk next week on advancements in designing computers the size of a human cell.
 James C. Ellenbogen, chief scientist of the Nanosystems Group and Emerging Technologies at MITRE Corp., will speak at 3 p.m. Thursday (March 21) in the Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, Room 121. The talk will provide an overview of ongoing work in his company's 20-year effort in nanotechnology engineering focused on the ultra-tiny molecular scale.
 The lecture, titled "Integrated Nanosystems For Ultra-Miniaturized Computers … and More," is free and open to the public. Sponsors for his Discovery Lecture are Lilly Endowment, 
Discovery Park and the Birck Nanotechnology Center. "Dr. Ellenbogen is noted for his unique contributions to molecular electronics and his efforts over two decades toward building electronic computers integrated on the nanoscale," said Ali Shakouri, the Mary Jo and Robert L.
 Kirk Director of the Birck Nanotechnology Center and a Purdue professor of electrical and computer engineering. "He also has been an innovative mentor in the nanotechnology field for grooming the next generation of scientists and engineers.
" Through a $1 million gift to Discovery Park from Indianapolis-based Lilly Endowment, Purdue launched the Discovery Lecture Series in 2006 for bringing prominent speakers to campus.
 Ellenbogen, who taught at several universities before joining MITRE in 1984, has focused on advancing the science and technology for designing and developing nanotechnology-enabled ultra-miniaturized systems.
 Specifically, he has led efforts in ultra-small electronic computer processors integrated on the nanometer scale for computers approximately the size of a human cell.
 In 2011 that research resulted in the realization of the world's first nanoelectronic computer processor. He recently has collaborated in the development of high-performance, nanotechnology-enabled portable power systems and in the discovery of new laws of physics that provide a path to the rapid design of nanocircuits and toward the more rapid modeling of materials on all scales.
 Ellenbogen has authored a number of highly cited papers on nanoelectronics and nanotechnology and is the inventor or co-inventor of key patented nanotechnology innovations.
 Based on his own technical work and that of his MITRE collaborators, he has assisted the government in planning and guiding a number of advanced and emerging technology research and development programs.
 Ellenbogen co-founded the MITRE Student Program in 1989, and he continues to coordinate that corporate program for mentoring high school students and college undergraduates in science, technology, engineering and applied mathematics.
 In that role, he has helped place more than 800 different students in paid summer technical positions across the company. Within the Nanosystems Group, he has personally mentored more than 130 students.
 In 2005 he received Washington Academy of Sciences Merit and Distinction in the Engineering Sciences Award. Ellenbogen received his master's degree in chemical physics from the University of Wisconsin in 1972 and his doctorate in that area from the University of Georgia in 1977.
 He has given many presentations throughout the world on nanotechnology and nanoelectronics. MITRE, which was formed in 1958 as a not-for-profit corporation under the leadership of C.W.
 Halligan, has principal locations in Bedford, Mass., and McLean, Va. As a national resource, the company applies its expertise in systems engineering, information technology, operational concepts and enterprise modernization to address its sponsors' critical needs.
 Source: Ali Shakouri, 765-496-6105, shakouri@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/native-american-educational-and-cultural-center-to-celebrate-heritage-month.html
<Content> Native American Educational and Cultural Center to celebrate heritage month
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.— Purdue University's Native American Educational and Cultural Center will host several events to celebrate Native American Heritage Month.
 "Native American Heritage Month is a national observance created to recognize, honor and celebrate indigenous people," said center director Felica Ahasteen-Bryant.
 "We are honoring the traditions and cultural diversity of Native American People." * Friday (Nov. 8). 8 p.m. Lafayette Theater, 600 Main St.
, Lafayette. Martha Redbone Roots Project performance. Martha Redbone is an Independent Music Award-winning musician of Cherokee, Choctaw, Shawnee and African-American descent.
 She will feature songs from her new album, "The Garden of Love – Songs of William Blake." The album explores Americana through the lens of British poet Blake's poetry.
 Tickets are $16 for Purdue and Ivy Tech students as well as those under 18. All other tickets are $25. Tickets are available at the Elliott Hall and Stewart Center box offices at 765-494-3933 or 800-914-SHOW.
 Call 765-496-1977 for more details or visit http://www.convocations.org/group-sales/ * Nov. 14. 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Lunch in Windsor Dining Court.
 12:30-1:30 p.m. Panel discussion in Vawter Living Room. "Contemporary Natives: Looking Beyond the Historical Stoic Indians." In honor of Native American Heritage Month, Housing and Food Services will feature Native American food items on the lunch menu.
 Afterward, the panel will discuss current issues in tribal communities such as Native identity, health and common misconceptions.
 Panelists will include Native American faculty at Purdue, students and staff. Guests must purchase a meal pass to eat lunch. For more information, visit 
http://www.purdue.edu/naecc/ * Nov. 14. 2-2:30 p.m. in Stewart Hall, Room 314 and 6-7:30 p.m.in the Elm Room of the West Lafayette Public Library.
 "Eiteljorg Museum Visiting Artists: Mary and Lorenzo Tafoya. Using their traditional and contemporary jewelry, the Eiteljorg Museum's November artists-in-residence will discuss the history, traditions and lifestyle of the Santo Domingo Pueblo tribe of New Mexico.
 * Nov. 15. All day. "Purdue Rock Your Mocs Day." For many indigenous people, moccasins have historically been their first form of shoes.
 They are created out of deer, elk, buffalo and moose hide. Each tribal has their own moccasin design that is tied to families, legends and ceremonies.
 "Rock Your Mocs" is a social movement designed to raise awareness of indigenous people. The Purdue Native community is encouraged to wear moccasins all day to show their "Indian pride.
" * Nov. 15. 12-1 p.m. The Native American Educational and Cultural Center, South Campus Courts, Building B. NAECC Souper Friday: Featuring Native American Corn Soup and Frybread.
 Purdue's student chapter of the American Indian Science and Engineering Society and the Native American Student Association will host lunch for the community.
 * Nov. 15. 6-7:30 p.m. Stewart Center, Room 314. NAECC Movie Night: "More Than Frybread." The NAECC will show the "mockumentary," about a statewide frybread championship set in Flagstaff, Ariz.
 Refreshments will be served. * Nov. 19. 1-2:30 p.m. Stewart Hall, Room 314. NAECC Distinguished Alumni Speaker Series. Justin McHorse, a Krannert School of Management alumnus and director of the American Indian Program at New Mexico State University, will speak.
 He will discuss the challenges of maintaining Native identity in the 21st century and the importance of Native students returning to tribal communities.
 In addition, the NAECC and Purdue Libraries are collaborating on displays in the HSSE, Engineering, Chemistry, Physics and Hicks Undergraduate libraries.
 Displays will offer insight into specific tribal nations, Native American legends related to the universe and a display of contemporary Native American films.
 Source: Felica Ahasteen-Bryant, 765-494-4540, fahastee@purdue.edu</Content>

right
<Content> NEES researchers and steel industry partners test seismic strength of light frame steel construction
 George E. Brown Jr., Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation • Funded by the National Science Foundation • www.nees.org
 NEES researchers and steel industry partners test seismic strength of light frame steel construction A view of the two-story test building, with workers installing steel plate.
 The completed structure is armored with 23,000 pounds of 1/2-inch steel plate. (Image/Kara Peterman).Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - A partnership of leading earthquake engineering researchers from top U.S. and Canadian universities and design professionals from the steel industry have begun the final phase of a three-year project to increase the seismic safety of buildings that use lightweight cold-formed steel for their primary beams and columns.
 Funded by a grant from the George E. Brown, Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation Network (NEES), the researchers have already developed a series of computational models to determine how a complete building structure will perform during an earthquake.
 Headquartered at Purdue's Discovery Park, NEES is a collaborative, 14-site research initiative that aims to improve structural seismic design and reduce the damaging effects of earthquakes and tsunamis.
 NEES is funded by a $105 million National Science Foundation grant. NEEScomm is the operations unit at Purdue. The initial stage in the testing involved the construction of a two-story structure and then testing on a "shake table" at the University of Buffalo.
 The building will undergo the rigors of a controlled earthquake to determine how it performs. There will be two phases to the shake table testing: Phase One is taking place June 12-14 and will test only the structural components, which include the cold-formed steel skeleton and the OSB (oriented strand board) sheathing for the floor diaphragm and roof; Phase Two will add non-structural components like stairs, gypsum sheathing and interior partitions.
 The objective is to advance cold-formed steel light-frame design in buildings to the next level and equip engineers to implement these performance-based seismic designs in their projects.
 The data from the research is published on NEEShub, the cyberinfrastructure component of the NEES network. The NEEShub platform is powered by Purdue's HUBzero software.
 The research team is led by Benjamin Schafer of the Department of Civil Engineering at Johns Hopkins University and a longtime member of two standards-developing committees of the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) - the Committee on Specifications and the Committee on Framing Standards.
 Schafer's team includes additional researchers from Johns Hopkins and Bucknell University, with input from colleagues at the University of North Texas, Virginia Tech and McGill University in Montreal, Canada.
 Several steel industry partners are participating in the project, providing technical expertise, donated materials and additional funding.
 The steel industry partners include the American Iron and Steel Institute, Bentley Systems Inc., ClarkDietrich Building Systems, Devco Engineering Inc.
, DSi Engineering, Mader Construction Co. Inc., Simpson Strong-Tie Co. Inc., the Steel Framing Industry Association, and the Steel Stud Manufacturers Association.
 "We appreciate the valuable technical and economic input that our industry partners have provided," said Schafer, the project's principal investigator.
 "This project has already resulted in several innovations that will immediately impact seismic cold-formed steel design standards, making buildings safer," Schafer said.
 "Now comes the fun part - getting to see how all the research plays out on the shake table. One of the important deliverables from this project will be the transfer of our research results into an open-source software framework.
 The data will then be made available to engineers, allowing them to see how their structural system designs will respond to an earthquake before they are constructed.
 This software will create cost efficiencies and potentially save lives." In fact, project data is already on NEEShub. Preliminary testing conducted on building components (shear walls in particular) have been posted for engineers to examine.
 Initial uploading of the test data happens immediately after the tests. Fully curated data will happen over the course of this summer.
 Schafer said Johns Hopkins graduate student Kara Peterman is on site at the University of Buffalo Structural Engineering and Earthquake Simulation Laboratory (SEESL) and is providing updates on the structure's construction and blog entries at the 
CFS NEES blog. The award is an outcome of the National Science Foundation 09-524 program solicitation for the George E. Brown, Jr.
 Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation Research competition. The title of the project is "NEES-CR: Enabling Performance-Based Seismic Design of Multi-Story Cold-Formed Steel Structures
," award number 1041578. The analysis and initial testing for the project began in late 2010 and took place at John Hopkins University and the University of North Texas.
 The focus has now moved to the University of Buffalo, where construction of the two-story test building was recently completed. Full-scale shake-table testing is expected to take place in the summer.
 About the George E. Brown, Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation Network (NEES) at Purdue Since Oct. 1, 2009, the NEES operations and cyberinfrastructure headquarters has been at Purdue University's Discovery Park, the result of National Science Foundation cooperative agreement #CMMI-0927178.
 The 14 participating universities hosting NEES laboratories include Cornell University; Lehigh University; Oregon State University; Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; University at Buffalo, SUNY; University of California, Berkeley; University of California, Davis; University of California, Los Angeles; University of California San Diego; University of California Santa Barbara; University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign; University of Minnesota; University of Nevada, Reno; and University of Texas, Austin.
 In addition, 5 institutions involved as administrative partners include: San Jose State University, University of Washington, University of Kansas, University of South Carolina, and the Fermi National Laboratory.
 Debbie Bennett: 202-452-7179, dbennett@steel.org </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/neil-armstrong-memorial-service-set-for-aug.-27-on-purdue-campus.html
<Content> Neil Armstrong memorial service set for Aug. 27 on Purdue campus
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue Student Government will hold a memorial service for university alumnus and Apollo astronaut Neil A.
 Armstrong at 5:30 p.m. Monday (Aug. 27). The service will be at the Neil Armstrong statue in front of Neil Armstrong Hall of Engineering, 701 W.
 Stadium Ave. A webcast of the service is at: mms://video1.itap.purdue.edu/bns/General/ArmstrongMemorial120827.wmv Armstrong, who died Saturday (Aug.
 25) at age 82, earned a bachelor's degree in aeronautical engineering from Purdue in 1955. He was awarded an honorary doctorate in engineering from Purdue in 1970.
 On July 20, 1969, he became the first person to walk on the moon as commander of Apollo 11. Joe Rust, president of Purdue Student Government, said the university's acting President Timothy Sands will be one of the speakers at the campus service.
 Other speakers and details are still being planned, he said.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/new-4-d-transistor-is-preview-of-future-computers.html
<Content> New '4-D' transistor is preview of future computers
 This image taken with a transmission electron microscope shows the cross section of a new type of transistor shaped like a Christmas tree that was created by researchers at Purdue and Harvard universities.
 The transistor is made from tiny nanowires of a material called indium-gallium-arsenide, which could replace silicon within a decade.
 (Purdue University image)Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – A new type of transistor shaped like a Christmas tree has arrived just in time for the holidays, but the prototype won't be nestled under the tree along with the other gifts.
 "It's a preview of things to come in the semiconductor industry," said Peide "Peter" Ye, a professor of electrical and computer engineering at Purdue University.
 Researchers from Purdue and Harvard universities created the transistor, which is made from a material that could replace silicon within a decade.
 Each transistor contains three tiny nanowires made not of silicon, like conventional transistors, but from a material called indium-gallium-arsenide.
 The three nanowires are progressively smaller, yielding a tapered cross section resembling a Christmas tree. The research builds on previous work in which the team created a 3-D structure instead of conventional flat transistors.
 The approach could enable engineers to build faster, more compact and efficient integrated circuits and lighter laptops that generate less heat than today's.
 New findings show how to improve the device performance by linking the transistors vertically in parallel. "A one-story house can hold so many people, but more floors, more people, and it's the same thing with transistors," Ye said.
 "Stacking them results in more current and much faster operation for high-speed computing. This adds a whole new dimension, so I call them 4-D.
" Findings will be detailed in two papers to be presented during the International Electron Devices Meeting on Dec. 8-12 in San Francisco.
 One of the papers has been highlighted by conference organizers as among "the most newsworthy topics and papers to be presented.
" The work is led by Purdue doctoral student Jiangjiang Gu and Harvard postdoctoral researcher Xinwei Wang. The newest generation of silicon computer chips, introduced this year, contain transistors having a vertical 3-D structure instead of a conventional flat design.
 However, because silicon has a limited "electron mobility" - how fast electrons flow - other materials will likely be needed soon to continue advancing transistors with this 3-D approach, Ye said.
 Indium-gallium-arsenide is among several promising semiconductors being studied to replace silicon. Such semiconductors are called III-V materials because they combine elements from the third and fifth groups of the periodic table.
 The authors of the research papers are Gu; Wang; Purdue doctoral student H. Wu; Purdue postdoctoral research associate J. Shao; Purdue doctoral student A.
 T. Neal; Michael J. Manfra, Purdue's William F. and Patty J. Miller Associate Professor of Physics; Roy Gordon, Harvard's Thomas D.
 Cabot Professor of Chemistry; and Ye. Transistors contain critical components called gates, which enable the devices to switch on and off and to direct the flow of electrical current.
 Smaller gates make faster operation possible. In today's 3-D silicon transistors, the length of these gates is about 22 nanometers, or billionths of a meter.
 The 3-D design is critical because gate lengths of 22 nanometers and smaller do not work well in a flat transistor architecture.
 Engineers are working to develop transistors that use even smaller gate lengths; 14 nanometers are expected by 2015, and 10 nanometers by 2018.
 However, size reductions beyond 10 nanometers and additional performance improvements are likely not possible using silicon, meaning new materials will be needed to continue progress, Ye said.
 Creating smaller transistors also will require finding a new type of insulating, or "dielectric" layer that allows the gate to switch off.
 As gate lengths shrink smaller than 14 nanometers, the dielectric used in conventional transistors fails to perform properly and is said to "leak" electrical charge when the transistor is turned off.
 Nanowires in the new transistors are coated with a different type of composite insulator, a 4-nanometer-thick layer of lanthanum aluminate with an ultrathin, half-nanometer layer of aluminum oxide.
 The new ultrathin dielectric allowed researchers to create transistors made of indium-gallium- arsenide with 20-nanometer gates, which is a milestone, Ye said.
 The work, based at the Birck Nanotechnology Center in Purdue's Discovery Park, is funded by the National Science Foundation and the Semiconductor Research Corp.
 20–80nm Channel Length InGaAs Gate-all-around Nanowire MOSFETs with EOT=1.2nm and Lowest SS=63mV/dec J. J. Gu,1) X. W. Wang,2)
 H. Wu,1) J. Shao,3) A. T. Neal,1) M. J. Manfra,3) R. G. Gordon,2) and P. D. Ye 1) Recently, a top-down technology for III-V gate-all-around (GAA) nanowire MOSFETs has been demonstrated [1-2].
 However, the device metrics such as gm, VDD, SS, DIBL, and the channel length (Lch) scaling of the III-V GAA devices demonstrated in [1] are still greatly limited by the large EOT of the devices.
 In this abstract, we experimentally demonstrate InGaAs GAA nanowire MOSFETs with an EOT down to 1.2nm by the successful integration of complex oxide dielectric LaAlO3 (k&#126;16) [3].
 The reduction of EOT has allowed the demonstration of the first 20nm Lch InGaAs MOSFETs with gm of 1.65mS/μ m at Vds=0.5V and negligible short channel effects (SCE).
 A systematic scaling metrics study with Lch between 20-80nm and nanowire size-dependent transport study with nanowire width (WNW) between 20-35nm has also been carried out for three different gate stacks, demonstrating near-ideal SS of 63mV/dec and DIBL of 7mV/V.
 It is shown that the integration of 4nm LaAlO3 with ultra-thin 0.5nm Al2O3 interfacial layer allow reduction of EOT=1.2nm with optimized interface trap density (Dit), offering excellent scalability, near-ballistic transport, and high gm at low supply voltage.
 J. J. Gu,1) X. W. Wang,2) J. Shao,3) A. T. Neal,1) M. J. Manfra,3) R. G. Gordon,2) and P. D. Ye 1) Introduction: III-V gate-all-around (GAA) nanowire (NW) MOSFETs, or III-V 3D transistors, have been experimentally demonstrated by a top-down approach, showing excellent scalability down to channel length (Lch) of 50nm [1].
 However, the gm, SS, and DIBL are greatly limited by the large EOT of the devices [1]. Furthermore, although lateral (parallel to the wafer surface) integration of NWs has been demonstrated with high drive current per wire, the overall current drivability of the devices is limited by the large pitch of the NWs.
 To overcome this drive current bottleneck, for the first time, a top-down process technology has been developed to fabricate vertically stacked (normal to the wafer surface) III-V NWFETs, similar to some explored Si NWFETs [2-3].
 We call this new type of nanowire devices III-V 4D transistors to distinguish them from III-V 3D transistors [1] which has only one vertical layer and multiple lateral wires.
 The experimental results, in this abstract, show that the drive current per wire pitch (Wpitch) is greatly increased from 3D to 4D structure.
 The new device concept is very promising for future high-speed low-power logic and RF applications. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/new-apps-put-gardening-solutions-at-tips-of-users-fingers.html
<Content> New apps put gardening solutions at tips of users' fingers
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - New mobile apps by Purdue Extension specialists can guide home gardeners in the proper care of their plants with the help of treatment methods based on proven research.
 The Annual Flower Doctor and Perennial Flower Doctor apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch can help home gardeners with dozens of problems for more than 200 plants.
 The apps are available for 99 cents each. "Every year, homeowners invest millions of dollars in their landscaping materials, and due to insect diseases and sometimes a lack of experience, problems come up.
 This is an affordable and efficient way to fix those problems," said Janna Beckerman, a Purdue Extension plant disease specialist and content specialist for the apps.
 "You just pull it out of your pocket and have answers right away." The apps build on Purdue Extension knowledge, using more than 400 high-quality photos that allow users to match 200 different plants with thousands of plant problems.
 The problems are ordered based on how common they are in Midwest gardens and yards. Once diagnosed, the apps guide users through methods to manage affected plants.
 Many comparable apps are sponsored or developed by companies that produce gardening chemicals or products. Cliff Sadof, a Purdue Extension entomologist and content specialist for the apps, said those apps tend to suggest particular products, whereas Purdue's apps are focused on research-based treatment methods.
 "We start with the least toxic approaches before we suggest using insecticides or fungicides," Sadof said. "We want to teach people how to treat the underlying problems before turning to chemical solutions.
" Beckerman said the apps could appeal to those who believe they lack a "green thumb" or haven't tested their skills to find out.
 "We hope this appeals to a generation who is used to using technology like this to help get them into gardening," she said. The information contained in the apps is not Web-based but on the devices after the apps are downloaded.
 Once they are downloaded, the information is available to users without mobile reception or wireless Internet connections. Beckerman and Sadof last year collaborated to release the Tree Doctor app, which covers 175 problems homeowners might have with 60 types of trees in the Midwest and Northeast.
 The Android version of the Purdue Tree Doctor is expected to be released soon. The Flower Doctor apps will follow soon after that in the Android store.
 Beckerman and Sadof said apps are in the works for shrubs, tomatoes and other food crops. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/new-center-to-lead-purdue-efforts-in-computational-nanotechnology,-materials-and-devices-development.html
<Content> New center to lead Purdue efforts in computational nanotechnology, materials and devices development
 New center to lead Purdue efforts in computational nanotechnology, materials and devices development WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The devices and technologies of the future will only be as good as the materials used to make them - and that's part of the problem.
 A new Purdue University research center hopes it can be a leader in finding solutions. The Purdue Center for Predictive Materials and Devices (c-PRIMED) and its focus on modeling for materials engineering dovetails with the national 
Materials Genome Initiative (MGI). Announced by President Barack Obama in 2011, this federal initiative will concentrate on developing methods to double the speed and halve the cost of creating new advanced materials.
 Purdue's nanoHUB.org, developed by the Network for Computational Nanotechnology and arguably the world's largest nanotechnology user facility, is highlighted in the White House's National Science and Technology Council report in June 2011 that paved the way for the MGI.
 The 18-page report, titled Materials Genome Initiative for Global Competitiveness, says: "Accelerating the pace of discovery and deployment of advanced material systems will, therefore, be crucial," adding, "Open innovation will play a key role in accelerating the development of advanced computational tools.
" The council's report goes on to say, "An existing system that is a good example of a first step toward open innovation is the nanoHUB.
" "c-PRIMED represents a continuation and a deepening of ongoing Purdue research efforts through nanoHUB.org," said Gerhard Klimeck
, a professor of electrical and computer engineering. The new Discovery Park research center, part of $12 million in new investment by Purdue's research infrastructure, is led by Klimeck and Alejandro Strachan, a professor of materials engineering.
 Other Purdue investment efforts in this area include Conte, the nation's fastest university-owned supercomputer; and the Center for Prediction of Reliability, Integrity and Survivability of Microsystems (PRISM).
 "Our efforts will focus on ways to accelerate the time it takes to introduce advanced materials to the marketplace for everything from airplane wings, solar cells and electronic devices to packaging that keeps food fresher," Klimeck said.
 "That's the dream behind c-PRIMED - and it's more attainable now." Through those efforts, Purdue investment totaling $12 million in the past decade has led to additional research funding totaling nearly $50 million from the National Science Foundation and other federal agencies for cyber platforms that support infrastructure and online content development for the nanotechnology research community.
 "These large-scale, high-impact projects by Purdue in the past decade have set the stage for an even larger initiative that can transform materials design and device development," said Alan Rebar, director of Discovery Park and senior associate vice president for research at Purdue.
 "Professors Klimeck and Strachan bring the leadership, vision and spirit of collaboration to c-PRIMED that will position Purdue as a key global player in addressing this nation's need to accelerate the pace of discovery and deployment of advanced material systems.
" A named Purdue directorship honors Klimeck's leadership as the inaugural Reilly Director of the Center for Predictive Materials and Devices.
 Klimeck also is director of the Network for Computational Nanotechnology and its signature nanoHUB.org online science and engineering gateway and Cyber Platform projects.
 His research focuses on creating atomic-scale models of future computer processor components and their quantum interactions. Strachan
 is a leader in developing and validating computational methods for predicting the behavior of materials and their application in technology.
 He is deputy director at PRISM. "We have the computational modeling that can assist us in accelerating the pace at which new materials are discovered, developed and transitioned into manufactured products," Klimeck said.
 "We can simultaneously drive the process through the system requirements and certification as new materials. It will be a coupling of expertise, interests and people with the potential for real impact to take research concepts developed together and used for a translational piece.
" Purdue researchers have been working the past 10 years to make calculations with "quantified uncertainties" in what is now referred to as predictive science.
 These sophisticated computer simulations and models can test materials for their thermal and mechanical properties as well as their stiffness, strength, flexibility and weight.
 "Today I require a hundred experiments to learn something important about a material," Strachan said. "The question is: Can I do 10 experiments, 10 very well designed experiments instead of a hundred?
 That requires powerful computers, new simulation capabilities and a framework for decision-making that combines simulations with experiments.
" The approach hinges on a fundamental change in how products are created by introducing a procedure known as material-product co-design.
 "Now, when we develop a product, the materials are fixed," Strachan said. "You take material A, material B and material C. I know the properties and I am going to pick from those.
 However, in material-product co-design, at the same time I am developing the airplane and the shape of the wings, I am also changing the material.
 Instead of saying polymer 1, polymer 2, polymer 3, I'm optimizing everything at the same time." "Knowing the uncertainties allows you to predict not just the mean behavior of a material but its across-the-board performance with enough confidence to make decisions about which designs to concentrate on," Strachan said.
 "You want to be able to make decisions based on these predictions, and that means you have to be able to guarantee the prediction.
" Complementing c-PRIMED, Purdue is recruiting six faculty positions for research and teaching in materials engineering and predictive science.
 This faculty cluster hire effort is interdisciplinary and involves the colleges of Engineering and Science. Faculty will be needed with expertise in fields ranging from chemistry and materials science to mechanical engineering and physics.
 Klimeck said advanced materials are so much a part of everyday life that it's hard for many people to understand how extremely difficult and time-consuming it is to develop them.
 For example, the lithium-ion batteries common in today's laptops and portable electronic devices were first proposed in the mid-1970s but only achieved broad market adoption and use in the late-1990s.
 By building on demonstrated Purdue research strengths in computer simulation and materials engineering, c-PRIMED gives the university the critical mass necessary to compete for significant federal and industrial investments stemming from the MGI, which is a part of the U.S.
 government's new Advanced Manufacturing Partnership. "We see an opportunity to set Purdue apart on a global stage in an increasingly important new research and application area," Klimeck said.
 "Through c-PRIMED, we will draw together existing strengths, provide the necessary glue and seed funding, and create an overall structure needed for high visibility.
" Locating c-PRIMED in Discovery Park also will help Purdue researchers and their national and global partners overcome the foundational challenge of multidisciplinary work, Klimeck said.
 "Discovery Park provides us the home to establish an incentive framework for many faculty outside their traditional departmental settings," he said.
 "We also will be better positioned to attract new faculty from national research laboratories and industry who see a high value in transformative research and development.
" For more information on Purdue's investment in research infrastructure and faculty </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/new-design-tool-nixes-mouse-users-create-shapes-with-hands-only.html
<Content> New design tool nixes mouse; users create shapes with hands only
 These shapes were produced with Handy-Potter, a new design tool developed at the C Design Lab in Purdue's School of Mechanical Engineering, that enables people to create and modify three-dimensional objects with their bare hands.
 The system uses a depth-sensing camera and advanced software algorithms to interpret hand movements and gestures. (Purdue University image)
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Researchers have developed a design tool that enables people to create three-dimensional objects with their bare hands by using a depth-sensing camera and advanced software algorithms to interpret hand movements and gestures.
 "It allows people to express their ideas rapidly and quickly using hand motions alone," said Karthik Ramani, Purdue University's Donald W.
 Feddersen Professor of Mechanical Engineering. "We're democratizing the design process. You don't have to be an engineer or an accomplished potter to use this.
 You can be a kid." The tool, called Handy-Potter, represents a potentially significant advance in how people interact with computers, he said.
 "In our lab we have a saying, 'The mouse is dead,'" Ramani said. "With Handy-Potter, we are trying to make the computer interface natural to the user.
" His research team won an "all conference best paper" award for the Handy-Potter work, to be presented during the ASME 2012 International Design Engineering Technical Conferences and Computers and Information in Engineering Conference this week in Chicago.
 The paper was co-authored by Ramani and graduate students Vinayak, Sundar Murugappan and Cecil Piya. The research, funded by the National Science Foundation, addresses the limitations of conventional computer-aided design tools that are needed to create geometric shapes.
 Purdue doctoral student Vinayak uses Handy-Potter to create a three-dimensional object. He is represented by a stick figure as he modifies the shape.
 (Purdue University image) "Traditional tools require the use of procedures so complicated that it is difficult to become an expert," Ramani said.
 "Handy-Potter is more of an imagination tool. You create the shape while you are completely focused on the idea rather than bothering yourself about the right usage of the tool.
 The tool learns you and does not become a barrier in creation. You don't learn the tool." Users interact with a computer using natural user interfaces like hand gestures to create and modify shapes.
 "For example, there are very intuitive gestures for pulling and bending a shape," Ramani said. "You learn the gestures naturally and without any user manual.
" The tool could have applications in areas including games, architecture, art and engineering design. It uses the Microsoft Kinect camera, which senses three-dimensional space.
 The camera is found in consumer electronics games that can track a person's body without using handheld electronics. Researchers created advanced algorithms that recognize the hand, understand that the hand is interacting with the shape and then modify the shape in response to the hand interaction.
 (A video showing how the system works is available at https://engineering.purdue.edu/cdesign/wp/?p=1221) "The algorithms are very intelligent," Ramani said.
 "They represent state-of-the-art synthesis of machine learning, geometric modeling and human-computer interaction." Note to Journalists
: Broadcast-quality B-roll and sound bites are available for download and use at ftp://news69.uns.purdue.edu/Public/HandyPotter/.
 For more information contact Jim Schenke, Purdue News Service, at 765-237-7296, jschenke@purdue.edu. A copy of the research paper is available by contacting Emil Venere, Purdue News Service, at 765-494-4709, 
venere@purdue.edu ABSTRACT We present the paradigm of natural and exploratory shape modeling by introducing novel 3-D interactions for creating, modifying and manipulating 3-D shapes using arms and hands.
 Though current design tools provide complex modeling functionality, they remain non-intuitive and require significant training since they segregate 3-D shapes into hierarchical 2-D inputs, thus binding the user to stringent procedural steps and making modifications cumbersome.
 In addition, the designer knows what to design when they go to CAD systems and the creative exploration in design is lost. We present a shape creation paradigm as an exploration of creative imagination and externalization of shapes, particularly in the early phases of design.
 We integrate the capability of humans to express 3-D shapes via hand-arm motions with traditional sweep surface representation to demonstrate rapid exploration of a rich variety of fairly complex 3-D shapes.
 We track the skeleton of users using the depth data provided by low-cost depth sensing camera (Kinect). Our modeling tool is configurable to provide a variety of implicit constraints for shape symmetry and resolution based on the position, orientation and speed of the arms.
 Intuitive strategies for coarse and fine shape modifications are also proposed. We conclusively demonstrate the creation of a wide variety of product concepts and show an average modeling time of only a few seconds while retaining the intuitiveness of communicating the design intent.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/new-effort-to-create-green-electronics,-workforce.html
<Content> New effort to create green electronics, workforce
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – The world's love affair with gadgets - many of which contain hazardous materials - is generating millions of tons of electronic waste annually.
 Now, Purdue and Tuskegee universities are leading an international effort to replace conventional electronics with more sustainable technologies and train a workforce of specialists to make the transition possible.
 "The rapid, global proliferation of smart phones, laptops, tablets and other electronic devices has connected the world in positive ways, but the electronic waste is - literally - piling up," said Carol Handwerker, Purdue's Reinhardt Schuhmann Jr.
 Professor of Materials Engineering. "We want to create materials that will allow computer components to be disassembled, recycled and reused.
 There is a growing realization that the traditional, linear model of consumption - 'design it, build it, use it, throw it away' - has long ceased being viable for electronics.
 That is why we proposed this innovative, integrative global education and research program to educate and train a Ph.D. workforce with an unprecedented capacity for analyzing complex dynamic systems.
" The new Global Traineeship in Sustainable Electronics is funded with a five-year, $3.2 million grant from the National Science Foundation.
 Handwerker is leading the project with four co-principal investigators, including Mahesh Hosur, a professor of materials science and engineering at Tuskegee.
 The three other co-principal investigators are Inez Hua, associate director of Purdue's Global Engineering Program and a professor of civil engineering; Karthik Ramani, the Donald W.
 Feddersen Professor of Mechanical Engineering; and Ananth Iyer, associate dean for graduate programs and Purdue's Susan Bulkeley Butler Chair in Operations Management at the Krannert School of Management.
 Researchers are working closely with the International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative (iNEMI), a consortium of electronics manufacturers, suppliers, associations, government agencies and universities.
 "This collaboration will enable doctoral students and faculty to take a global supply chain perspective that integrates engineering issues and business realities and enhances research effectiveness," Iyer said.
 "Being linked to industry leaders and to research experts will offer us an opportunity to understand business challenges and provide impactful research solutions.
" "At the same time, programs like these are critical to industry," he said. "Industrial research has consistently decreased over the past two decades, making it important for industry to aggressively encourage and support academic research programs such as this one that focus on innovation to meet technology needs.
" The workforce should include specialists in many disciplines, from engineering and science to economics, anthropology, management, and political science.
 "It's not just an engineering problem, it's not just a technology problem," Handwerker said. "It involves people's behavior, dynamics of social systems, industrial systems, legislation and regulation.
 We will bring together all of these disciplines and people to address the complex set of issues related to sustainable electronics.
" More than 3 million tons of e-waste were generated in 2007 in the United States, with 13.6 percent collected for recycling and 86.4 percent going to landfills and incinerators.
 Electronic products contain hazardous materials such as heavy metals and brominated flame retardants. The materials can leach out of landfills into groundwater or be converted into "super toxins" including dioxin while being incinerated.
 Environmental concerns have led 25 states to pass laws mandating e-waste recycling. "Because many states have laws prohibiting disposal of electronic waste in landfills, the waste is incinerated or shipped to developing countries," said Fu Zhao, an assistant professor in Purdue's School of Mechanical Engineering and Division of Environmental and Ecological Engineering.
 "Neither scenario is good from a sustainability perspective. Incineration is expensive, and materials and energy are wasted. Exporting e-waste to developing countries damages local environments, harms people's health and is against environmental justice.
" Researchers will work to develop "nanocomposites" made of natural materials for structural applications in casings and circuit boards.
 Another thrust will be to create lignin and soy-based resins for circuit board construction to replace petroleum-based resins. "Being naturally derived and plentiful, these materials may offer an opportunity for low-cost, non-fossil-fuel-derived materials for high performance structural applications.
 Whether they are more environmentally benign than alternatives will depend on their life cycle environmental costs. This is truly a case where 'the devil is in the details,' " Handwerker said.
 Other goals include development of adhesives from marine organisms for the construction and disassembly of electronics and green replacements for brominated flame retardants.
 "We foresee a future of increasing collaboration on many fronts,” Hosur said. "We are developing a curriculum, and we need to expand our research base on both campuses.
 The grant has strengthened the two-decade-long relationship that Tuskegee has had with Purdue in advanced materials through NSF and the U.S.
 Department of Defense." The first course, design for global sustainability, is being offered this semester at Purdue and Tuskegee, with graduate students from management, engineering and political science enrolled, she said.
 The program will involve university partners in Germany, Colombia, China and India, connected through globalHUB, a Web site for international collaboration based on Purdue's HUBzero software.
 Seven Purdue graduate students and three Tuskegee students are involved, with a total of 28 two-year fellowships funded over the five-year program.
 Cynthia Williams, iNEMI, 207-871-1260, cwilliams@inemi.org</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/new-imaging-technology-could-reveal-cellular-secrets.html
<Content> New imaging technology could reveal cellular secrets
 This image illustrates the concept for a new type of technology that combines two biological imaging methods - atomic force microscopy and nuclear magnetic resonance - to create a new way to study cancer-cell metastasis and other disease-related processes.
 (Purdue University image/ Xin Xu) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Researchers have married two biological imaging technologies, creating a new way to learn how good cells go bad.
 "Let's say you have a large population of cells," said Corey Neu, an assistant professor in Purdue University's Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering.
 "Just one of them might metastasize or proliferate, forming a cancerous tumor. We need to understand what it is that gives rise to that one bad cell.
" Such an advance makes it possible to simultaneously study the mechanical and biochemical behavior of cells, which could provide new insights into disease processes, said biomedical engineering postdoctoral fellow Charilaos "Harris" Mousoulis.
 Being able to study a cell's internal workings in fine detail would likely yield insights into the physical and biochemical responses to its environment.
 The technology, which combines an atomic force microscope and nuclear magnetic resonance system, could help researchers study individual cancer cells, for example, to uncover mechanisms leading up to cancer metastasis for research and diagnostics.
 The prototype's capabilities were demonstrated by taking nuclear magnetic resonance spectra of hydrogen atoms in water. Findings represent a proof of concept of the technology and are detailed in a research paper that appeared online April 11 in the journal 
Applied Physics Letters. The paper was co-authored by Mousoulis; research scientist Teimour Maleki; Babak Ziaie, a professor of electrical and computer engineering; and Neu.
 "You could detect many different types of chemical elements, but in this case hydrogen is nice to detect because it's abundant," Neu said.
 "You could detect carbon, nitrogen and other elements to get more detailed information about specific biochemistry inside a cell.
" An atomic force microscope (AFM) uses a tiny vibrating probe called a cantilever to yield information about materials and surfaces on the scale of nanometers, or billionths of a meter.
 Because the instrument enables scientists to "see" objects far smaller than possible using light microscopes, it could be ideal for studying molecules, cell membranes and other biological structures.
 However, the AFM does not provide information about the biological and chemical properties of cells. So the researchers fabricated a metal microcoil on the AFM cantilever.
 An electrical current is passed though the coil, causing it to exchange electromagnetic radiation with protons in molecules within the cell and inducing another current in the coil, which is detected.
 The Purdue researchers perform "mechanobiology" studies to learn how forces exerted on cells influence their behavior. In work focusing on osteoarthritis, their research includes the study of cartilage cells from the knee to learn how they interact with the complex matrix of structures and biochemistry between cells.
 Future research might include studying cells in "microfluidic chambers" to test how they respond to specific drugs and environmental changes.
 A U.S. patent application has been filed for the concept. The research has been funded by Purdue's Showalter Trust Fund and the National Institutes of Health.
 Note to Journalists: Journalists can obtain a copy of the research paper by contacting Emil Venere, Purdue News Service, at 765-494-4709, 
venere@purdue.edu Atomic Force Microscopy-Coupled Microcoils for Cellular-Scale Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy We present the coupling of atomic force microscopy (AFM) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) technologies to enable topographical, mechanical and chemical profiling of biological samples.
 Here, we fabricate and perform proof-of-concept testing of radiofrequency planar microcoils on commercial AFM cantilevers. The sensitive region of the coil was estimated to cover an approximate volume of 19.4 10 3 lm3 (19.4 pl).
 Functionality of the spectroscopic module of the prototype device is illustrated through the detection of 1H resonance in deionized water.
 The acquired spectra 14 depict combined NMR capability with AFM that may ultimately enable biophysical and biochemical studies at the single cell level.
 VC 2013 AIP Publishing LLC. [http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.4801318].</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/new-interactive-system-detects-touch-and-gestures-on-any-surface.html
<Content> New interactive system detects touch and gestures on any surface
 This composite image shows how fingers and hands are computed in a new touch-activated system that projects onto walls and other surfaces and allows people to interact with their environment and each other.
 (Purdue University image)Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – People can let their fingers - and hands - do the talking with a new touch-activated system that projects onto walls and other surfaces and allows users to interact with their environment and each other.
 The system identifies the fingers of a person's hand while touching any plain surface. It also recognizes hand posture and gestures, revealing individual users by their unique traits.
 "Imagine having giant iPads everywhere, on any wall in your house or office, every kitchen counter, without using expensive technology," said 
Niklas Elmqvist, an assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering at Purdue University. "You can use any surface, even a dumb physical surface like wood.
 You don't need to install expensive LED displays and touch-sensitive screens." The new "extended multitouch" system allows more than one person to use a surface at the same time and also enables people to use both hands, distinguishing between the right and left hand.
 Research indicates the system is 98 percent accurate in determining hand posture, which is critical to recognizing gestures and carrying out commands.
 The technology has many possible applications, said Karthik Ramani, Purdue's Donald W. Feddersen Professor of Mechanical Engineering.
 "Basically, it might be used for any interior surface to interact virtually with a computer," he said. "You could use it for living environments, to turn appliances on, in a design studio to work on a concept or in a laboratory, where a student and instructor interact.
" Findings are detailed in a research paper being presented this week during the Association for Computing Machinery Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology (ACM UIST 2012) in Cambridge, Mass.
 The paper was written by doctoral students Sundar Murugappan and Vinayak, who uses only one name, Elmqvist and Ramani. "We project a computer screen on any surface, just a normal table covered with white paper," Ramani said.
 "The camera sees where your hands are, which fingers you are pressing on the surface, tracks hand gestures and recognizes whether there is more than one person working at the same time.
" The Kinect camera senses depth, making it possible to see how far each 3-D pixel is from the camera. The researchers married the camera with a new computer model for the hand.
 "So we can isolate different parts of a hand or finger to show how far they are from the surface," Elmqvist said. "We can see which fingers are touching the surface.
 With this technology, you could potentially call up a menu by positioning your hand just above the surface." That camera coupled with the hand model allows the system to locate the center of each hand, which is necessary for determining gestures and distinguishing between left and right hands.
 Researchers explored possible applications, including one that allows the user to draw a sketch with a pen and then modify it with their hands.
 "We can detect gestural interactions between more than one hand and more than one user," Ramani said. "You could do precision things, like writing with a pen, with your dominant hand and more general things, such as selecting colors, using the non-dominant hand.
" Researchers tested the concept in two user studies, one with 14 volunteers and the other with nine. Findings from one study indicated display features should be no smaller than 18 millimeters, or about an inch, to be efficient.
 "While new and more precise cameras will improve accuracy, we have established the necessary hand models and principles for the system," Ramani said.
 The other user study showed the system can effectively determine hand posture and whether the right or left hand is being used. 
"We wanted to see how accurate we could be while figuring out different configurations, such as touching with all 10 fingers, which hand is being used and so on," Elmqvist said.
 The research has been supported by the National Science Foundation and the Donald W. Feddersen Chaired Professorship at Purdue School of Mechanical Engineering.
 Multitouch surfaces are becoming prevalent, but most existing technologies are only capable of detecting the user's actual points of contact on the surface and not the identity, posture, and handedness of the user.
 In this paper, we define the concept of extended multitouch interaction as a richer input modality that includes all of this information.
 We further present a practical solution to achieve this on tabletop displays based on mounting a single commodity depth camera above a horizontal surface.
 This will enable us to not only detect when the surface is being touched, but also recover the user's exact finger and hand posture, as well as distinguish between different users and their handedness.
 We validate our approach using two user studies, and deploy the technique in a scratchpad tool and in a pen + touch sketch tool.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/new-krannert-program-aimed-at-helping-undergrads-launch-careers.html
<Content> New Krannert program aimed at helping undergrads launch careers
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's Krannert School of Management has begun a program to ensure that its undergraduates leave school with not only a degree but skills that will provide the foundation for starting a career while striving for a personal and professional life built on high ethical standards, community service and social responsibility.
 This fall, all of Krannert's incoming freshmen are participating in Launching Business Leaders, an initiative designed to develop skills and competencies that reach beyond academics that they'll need in their careers and personal lives.
 "In this program, students develop a personal brand," said Charlene Sullivan, associate dean for undergraduate programs and associate professor of management.
 "Throughout their undergraduate years, they'll learn skills and participate in activities that will produce well-rounded young professionals with experiential-based learning that goes beyond that gained in the classroom.
" Specifically, the students will build their personal portfolios with work, leadership, academic, project and global experiences.
 An eight-week class that had been used to introduce freshmen to the options within Krannert and at Purdue has been expanded with Launching Business Leaders to put students on the path to building their portfolio.
 The Launching Business Leaders message continues in a second eight-week class that focuses on information literacy, including written and oral communication and research.
 Finally, in their junior year, all Krannert students will enroll in an upper-level 16-week course that focuses on personal portfolio assessment, résumé building, interviewing skills and professional behavior and etiquette.
 The students will use Passport, a tool designed at Purdue by ITaP, which can then be attached to their LinkedIn site. "Through these courses, our students will work on various components of professional and personal success, including critical thinking, oral communication, global awareness and networking skills to name a few," Sullivan said.
 "They'll learn to think and analyze and will leave Purdue with the leadership skills necessary to tackle the toughest challenges.
 "They'll also work to develop their personal brand that includes trustworthiness and integrity, professionalism, personal responsibility and a drive for results.
" Krannert graduates are highly sought after by job recruiters who ranked Krannert third in a 2012 Bloomberg Businessweek survey of undergraduate business schools.
 "Why shouldn't our students be No. 1?" asked Sullivan, who said Krannert's new challenge will be to increase the number of community, company, state, local and world leaders who it graduates.
 "We have world-class academic programs at Purdue. We get wonderfully talented students. Now we have the Launching Business Leaders program designed to work on the 'whole person' and allow our tremendous resources to have an impact on a broad range of challenges in the world," she said.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/new-modeling-approach-transforms-imaging-technologies.html
<Content> New modeling approach transforms imaging technologies
 Researchers are improving the performance of technologies ranging from medical CT scanners to digital cameras using a system of models to extract specific information from huge collections of data and then reconstructing images like a jigsaw puzzle.
 Here, the method is used to create a high-resolution 3-D electron microscopy reconstruction of aluminum nanoparticles, aiding efforts to design nanocomposites for applications ranging from fuel cells to transparent coatings.
 (Purdue University, U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory and Carnegie Mellon University) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Researchers are improving the performance of technologies ranging from medical CT scanners to digital cameras using a system of models to extract specific information from huge collections of data and then reconstructing images like a jigsaw puzzle.
 "It's more-or-less how humans solve problems by trial and error, assessing probability and discarding extraneous information," said Charles Bouman, Purdue University's Michael and Katherine Birck Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and a professor of biomedical engineering.
 MBIR has been used in a new CT scanning technology that exposes patients to one-fourth the radiation of conventional CT scanners.
 In consumer electronics, a new camera has been introduced that allows the user to focus the picture after it has been taken. "These innovations are the result of 20 years of research globally to develop iterative reconstruction," Bouman said.
 "We are just scratching the surface. As the research community builds more accurate models, we can extract more information to get better results.
" In medical CT scanners, the reduction of radiation exposure is due to increased efficiency achieved via the models and algorithms.
 MBIR reduces "noise" in the data, providing greater clarity that allows the radiologist or radiological technician to scan the patient at a lower dosage, Bouman said.
 "It's like having night-vision goggles," he said. "They enable you to see in very low light, just as MBIR allows you to take high-quality CT scans with a low-power X-ray source.
" Researchers also have used the approach to improve the quality of images taken with an electron microscope. New findings are detailed in a research paper being presented during the 
Electronic Imaging 2013 conference in San Francisco this week. Traditionally, imaging sensors and software are designed to detect and measure a particular property.
 The new approach does the inverse, collecting huge quantities of data and later culling specific information from this pool of information using specialized models and algorithms.
 "We abandon the idea of purity – collecting precisely what we need," Bouman said. "Instead, let's take all the measurements we possibly can and then later extract what we want.
 This increases the envelope of what you can do enormously." Purdue, the University of Notre Dame and GE Healthcare used MBIR to create Veo, a new CT scanning technology that enables physicians to diagnose patients with high-clarity images at previously unattainable low radiation dose levels.
 The technology has been shown to reduce radiation exposure by 78 percent. "If you can get diagnostically usable scans at such low dosages this opens up the potential to do large-scale screening for things like lung cancer," Bouman said.
 "You open up entirely new clinical applications because the dosage is so low." A CT scanner is far better at diagnosing disease than planar X-rays because it provides a three-dimensional picture of the tissue.
 However, conventional CT scanners emit too much radiation to merit wider diagnostic use. "But as the dosage goes down, the risk-benefit tradeoff for screening will become much more favorable," Bouman said.
 "For electron microscopy, the principle advantage is higher resolutions, but there is also some advantage in reduction of electron dosage, which can damage the sample.
" The research to develop Veo has been a team effort with Ken Sauer, an associate professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame, in collaboration with Jean-Baptiste Thibault, Jiang Hsieh and Zhou Yu.
 Thibault and Yu worked on the technology as graduate assistants under Bouman and Sauer and both currently work for GE Healthcare.
 "And, there are lots of other people doing similar and related research at other universities and research labs around the world," Bouman said.
 "Ultimately, 3-D X-ray CT images might require little more dosage than old-fashion planar chest X-rays. This would allow CT to be used for medical screening without significant adverse effects.
" In the electron microscope research, MBIR was used to take images of tiny beads called aluminum nanoparticles. "We are getting reconstruction quality that's dramatically better than was possible before, and we think we can improve it even further," Bouman said.
 Improved resolution could help researchers design the next generation of nanocomposites for applications such as fuel cells and transparent coatings.
 The paper was authored by Purdue doctoral student Singanallur Venkatakrishnan; U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory researchers Lawrence Drummy and Jeff Simmons; Michael Jackson, a researcher from BlueQuartz Software; Carnegie Mellon University researcher Marc De Graef; and Bouman.
 A tutorial article (pdf) also appeared in January in the journal Current Radiological Reports. The models and algorithms in MBIR apply probability computations to extract the correct information, much as people use logical assumptions to draw conclusions.
 "You search all possible data to find what you are looking for," Bouman said. "This is how people solve problems. You saw Bob yesterday at the store; you wonder where he was coming from.
 Well, you determine that he was probably coming from work because you have some probabilistic models in your mind. You know he probably wasn't coming from San Francisco because Bob doesn't go to San Francisco very often, etc.
" MBIR also could bring more affordable CT scanners for airport screening. In conventional scanners, an X-ray source rotates at high speed around a chamber, capturing cross section images of luggage placed inside the chamber.
 However, MBIR could enable the machines to be simplified by eliminating the need for the rotating mechanism. Future research includes work to use iterative reconstruction to study materials.
 Purdue is part of a new Multi-University Research Initiative funded by the U.S. Air Force and led by De Graef. Researchers will use the method to study the structure of materials, work that could lead to development of next-generation materials.
 Note to Journalists: An electronic copy of the SPIE research paper is available from Emil Venere, Purdue News Service, at 765-494-4709, 
venere@purdue.edu Singanallur V. Venkatakrishnan a, Lawrence F. Drummy b, Marc De Graef c, Je&#64256; P. Simmons b, and Charles A.
 Bouman a Bright Field (BF) electron tomography (ET) has been widely used in the life sciences to characterize biological specimens in 3-D.
 While BF-ET is the dominant modality in the life sciences, it has been generally avoided in the physical sciences due to anomalous measurements in the data due to a phenomenon called "Bragg scatter" - visible when crystalline samples are imaged.
 These measurements cause undesirable artifacts in the reconstruction when the typical algorithms such as Filtered Back Projection (FBP) and Simultaneous Iterative Reconstruction Technique (SIRT) are applied to the data.
 Model based iterative reconstruction (MBIR) provides a powerful framework for tomographic reconstruction that incorporates a model for data acquisition, noise in the measurement and a model for the object to obtain reconstructions that are qualitatively superior and quantitatively accurate.
 In this paper we present a novel MBIR algorithm for BF-ET which accounts for the presence of anomalous measurements from Bragg scatter in the data during the iterative reconstruction.
 Our method accounts for the anomalies by formulating the reconstruction as minimizing a cost function which rejects measurements that deviate significantly from the typical Beer's law model widely assumed for BF-ET.
 Results on simulated as well as real data show that our method can dramatically improve the reconstructions compared to FBP and MBIR without anomaly rejection, suppressing the artifacts due to the Bragg anomalies.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/new-program-moves-more-purdue-students-to-study-abroad.html
<Content> New program moves more Purdue students to study abroad
 An instructor with the Beijing Sport University demonstrates traditional Chinese medicine practices to Purdue students from the Department of Health and Kinesiology.
 This May 2013 program in Beijing, Hangzhou and Shanghai focused on differences between Eastern and Western approaches to physical activity, fitness, health and well-being.
 (Photo provided) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - More Purdue students will have the opportunity to study abroad thanks to the university's new plan to dramatically increase student participation and make it as close to cost neutral as possible with a new scholarship fund.
 The goal is for a third of all undergraduate students to participate in an international study, internship or research credit-bearing experience before graduation.
 Currently, about 19 percent of students have participated in a study abroad program. This study abroad plan is among several initiatives that have been developed from across the university and were announced at the Monday (Sept.
 9) Faculty Senate meeting. "This bold plan to increase learning opportunities through study abroad marks the first initiative to move the university forward in several critical areas," said Purdue president Mitch Daniels.
 "Learning in another country is an educational necessity, and making study abroad a core component of a Purdue education will help students grow, learn and prepare themselves to make an impact in a global economy.
" Purdue students Emily Zinfon (standing), a senior in the undergraduate program in Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences, and Kate Geisen, a student in the doctor of audiology program, test the hearing of a student at the Deaf Bible Baptist School during a 2013 Department of Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences study abroad program to Lusaka, Zambia in Africa.
 During the service-learning program, Purdue students participated in hearing clinics at the local hospitals and provided services to children and adults at the local schools for the deaf.
 (Photo provided) Download Photo As part of the study abroad plan, Purdue will offer up to $3,000 to qualified undergraduate students who study abroad for a semester or academic year and up to $1,000 for qualified undergraduate students who participate in a shorter-term credit-bearing program.
 This plan will commence with the Spring 2014 semester. Students interested in more information can contact the Office of Programs for Study Abroad at 
http://www.studyabroad.purdue.edu/ "Purdue students benefit from the international diversity on the West Lafayette campus, but the next step is for more students to learn in an international environment," said Suresh Garimella, the university's chief global affairs officer.
 "Purdue is ready for this as many faculty members across disciplines have developed programs that give students a variety of learning experiences from internships in London, to students in athletic training learning about Chinese medicine in Beijing, to engineering students participating in research projects or industrial internships abroad.
" There will be an increased effort to promote study abroad programs, including an introduction at next year's Boiler Gold Rush new student orientation program.
 Purdue also will boost its collaboration with international institutions to ensure equivalent courses so students can prepare for the long term, and resources also will be available to students to help them plan and identify study abroad programs that fit into their academic course of study.
 There also will be faculty incentives to encourage more participation, and an incentive award will be offered to every department or school that successfully identifies, develops and implements a strategic international institutional partnership.
 "The Office of Programs for Study Abroad has program fairs and many promotions on campus, but we find one of the best efforts to promote studying abroad is the students who return," Garimella said.
 "They often speak to groups and encourage their friends. We know there is interest, and we hope this additional support makes it possible for more students to participate.
" Suresh Garimella, 765-494-9095, sureshg@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/new-purdue-graduate-fellowship-program-designed-to-prepare-interdisciplinary-leaders.html
<Content> New Purdue graduate fellowship program designed to prepare interdisciplinary leaders
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A student-led initiative has opened the door to Purdue University for a new program designed to prepare the next generation of leaders for tackling complex challenges that require an interdisciplinary-driven solution.
 Fellowships for up to five graduate students will be offered at Purdue through the new program, Emerging Leaders in Science and Society, thanks to efforts by Purdue doctoral students Jennifer Burks, Aaron Goldner, Lindsey Payne and others.
 Emerging Leaders in Science and Society (ELISS) fellowships will be offered beginning the spring 2014 semester through the Office of the Provost and the Office of Interdisciplinary Graduate Programs at Purdue and American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).
 The pre-application process opens Tuesday (May 7), and formal applications will be taken from June 18 through July 15. All current Purdue graduate students are eligible.
 For more information, go to http://www.aaas.org/eliss. "This new program will help Purdue graduate and professional students understand the complex problems confronting our society and to set and achieve shared goals," said Purdue Provost Timothy Sands.
 "This one-year, extracurricular experience is suited for students from all fields including science and engineering, professional fields, and the arts and humanities.
 A powerful component of this new program is that it's student driven." In the first year, the Purdue ELISS fellows will collaborate with ELISS fellows at other campuses and mentors in different disciplines to examine a challenge in one of two theme areas: health and well-being or energy and environment.
 In addition, they will attend training and planning meetings and volunteer 2-5 hours per week to research the impacts of their issue in communities around the country.
 They also will organize local events, a national briefing, and an online portal to help the public and key stakeholders address these challenges, Burks said.
 In return, fellows will learn to apply their expertise more broadly, gain leadership skills, and join a cross-boundary professional community with the drive and talent to tackle society's most complex issues, she said.
 "This will be a great experience for students to gain the depth and breadth for addressing the vexing challenges of our world by working with students in other disciplines and at other universities," said Burks, who will receive her doctorate degree in agronomy this spring.
 "ELISS Fellows from Purdue will connect with other graduate students who are passionate and driven to find solutions to the great challenges of our world today.
" Goldner said addressing societal challenges requires collaboration across academic disciplines. But that can be difficult among those who speak in different disciplinary jargon, face institutional barriers and have few professional contacts outside their discipline or region.
 "Not only will the ELISS fellows learn to collaborate more effectively, they will become members of the inaugural class of passionate graduate students empowered and equipped to tackle society's toughest challenges," said Goldner, who is receiving his Purdue doctorate degree in earth, atmospheric and planetary sciences this spring.
 Purdue participated in a national signature drive sponsored by the AAAS from Oct. 22-Nov. 23, gathering interest from students across all academic disciplines on campus.
 Led by Burks, Goldner and Payne, Purdue gathered 156 signatures, finishing third behind the University of Washington (209) and the University of Pennsylvania (170).
 Invited to join Purdue as founding partners of the ELISS program are Washington, Penn and Stanford University. "What's exciting is the strength of our signature drive, which had representation from every college at Purdue - from physics, environmental sciences and agronomy to linguistics and history," said Payne, who is pursuing her doctorate degree in ecological sciences and engineering.
 Led by AAAS, ELISS unites national leadership and resources with the passion of students from multiple campuses. A group of early-career Ph.D.s with experience in government, industry, and academia founded ELISS.
 AAAS is a nonprofit organization that reaches 10 million individuals. It draws upon AAAS's experience in leadership development and public engagement, while maintaining the grass-roots, student-driven culture of its founders.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/new-purdue-lab-focused-on-finding-drugs-to-prevent-vision-loss.html
<Content> New Purdue lab focused on finding drugs to prevent vision loss
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University is collaborating with the Joint Shantou International Eye Center to search for new drugs based on traditional Chinese medicines to improve vision and treat retinal degeneration.
 Purdue and the Joint Shantou International Eye Center of Shantou University and the Chinese University of Hong Kong established a joint laboratory based at Purdue that will use zebrafish as a model to screen compounds that may have visual benefits.
 Retinal degeneration causes irreversible vision loss and is the result of a wide range of disorders and diseases that affect millions of children and adults worldwide.
 Such diseases that damage the thin tissue of the retina include retinitis pigmentosa, a genetic disorder that is estimated to affect 1.5 million people globally, and age-related macular degeneration, the leading cause of vision loss in North America, according to the Foundation Fighting Blindness.
 "There are not many effective treatments available for retinal degeneration, but the vision loss is usually a gradual process, which means there is a significant window for intervention," said Yuk Fai Leung, an assistant professor of biological sciences at Purdue who leads the research.
 "Drugs or therapies that could slow the progression of the disease could allow people to hold onto their vision longer and greatly improve their quality of life.
" This joint laboratory is one component of a partnership that draws on the complementary strengths of Purdue and the Joint Shantou International Eye Center.
 "The partnership connects clinical and basic research so that we can identify a problem in patients, take it back to the laboratory for study, develop and test new therapies, and then bring back a solution to the patients," he said.
 "We hope to pinpoint the compounds in these traditional herbs that are influencing vision and use them as a model to create even more effective and safe compounds for treatment.
" The Joint Shantou International Eye Center has access to the traditional medicines and expertise in compound characterization, and an extensive clinical infrastructure and patient database, while Purdue has strengths in drug discovery, design and development, he said.
 Researchers will measure the response to light stimulus in zebrafish with retinal degeneration or other visual impairments that have been treated with a potential therapeutic compound, Leung said.
 "Zebrafish models fill a significant gap in drug discovery between cellular assays and testing in larger animal models," he said.
 "This testing will help to identify lead candidates and narrow down the compounds that will move forward along the drug discovery pipeline.
" Compounds that show promise will be further developed through Purdue's Bindley Biosciences Center and Center for Drug Discovery.
 Dr. Liyun Zhang, a former postdoctoral researcher in Leung's research team, assisted in the development of this research and collaboration.
 Richard Kuhn, the Gerald and Edna Mann Director of the Bindley Biosciences Center and head of the Department of Biological Sciences, and Marietta Harrison, associate vice president for research and professor of medicinal chemistry and molecular pharmacology, played an advisory role in the establishment of this partnership.
 Collaborators from the Joint Shantou International Eye Center include Dr. Ming-zhi Zhang, a professor and executive vice director of the center, and Calvin Chi-Pui Pang, director of the center, and S.H.
 Ho Professor of Visual Sciences and chairman of the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
 Source: Yuk Fai Leung, 765-496-3153, yfleung@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/new-resource-supports-indiana-military-families,-veterans.html
<Content> New resource supports Indiana military families, veterans
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Neighbors, faith leaders, educators and businesses in Indiana who want to better help military families now have an online resource through Purdue University that provides suggestions and information that can benefit veterans and military families.
 The How to Help Military and Veteran Families series is available in a print format and online at http://www.purdue.edu/hhs/extension/howtohelp
 A related webinar, "How to Help Military & Veteran Families: Some Answers to Your Questions," also is available at 2 p.m. on Oct.
 7, and information can be found at https://learn.extension.org/events/1237 "More than 70 percent of military families live 'outside the gate' away from military bases, and this means the support and services they often receive are from non-military personnel," said Shelley MacDermid Wadsworth, director of the 
Military Family Research Institute and professor of human development and family studies. "These civilian helpers, who could be neighbors, religious leaders, teachers or financial advisers, may not realize the special circumstances or needs of military families and veteran families.
 This new series provides tips and advice that are based on research findings and supported by experts in the subject matter dealt with in the issues.
" Online resources currently posted are for early childhood educators; extended families, friends and neighbors; financial professionals; and higher education staff.
 Additional resources will be posted soon for employers, faith-based leaders, legal professionals, mental health providers, medical providers, first responders and teachers.
 For example, tips for extended family members include how to support the immediate family and military service member before, during and after deployment.
 Information and resources also are available for financial professionals to better understand military members and family financial needs.
 The information for Indiana is available through the Military Family Research Institute at Purdue and the College of Health and Human Sciences
. The series, which was announced last spring, is a partnership between Purdue's institute, several federal agencies and the National Military Family Association.
 The April 2013 launch of the How to Help series was part of the two-year anniversary of Joining Forces, an initiative to support military families led by First Lady Michelle Obama and Jill Biden, wife of the vice president.
 The Military Family Research Institute is working with its partners to help other states make this series available nationwide. The United States Department of Agriculture's National Institute of Food and Agriculture is distributing the publication to cooperative extension offices in every state, and each state has the option of customizing the content to include state-specific information.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/new-reward,-recognition-program-to-roll-out-for-eligible-faculty,-staff.html
<Content> New reward, recognition program to roll out for eligible faculty, staff
 A new reward and recognition program for eligible employees will be available Oct. 1: The Bravo Award. The Bravo Award seeks to highlight the excellence found across all areas and job functions at the University by recognizing extraordinary achievements on every scale.
 Bravo is an after-the-fact discretionary award program, designed to provide recognition for substantial accomplishments to an individual or work group.
 The Bravo Award was designed by the Compensation Advisory Committee, which was chartered in June by Purdue's executive leadership to develop and implement new and improved compensation practices to recognize efforts by Purdue employees who move the University forward, support excellence and innovation in all it does, and help it operate more efficiently and effectively.
 To ensure that all eligible faculty and staff have an opportunity to be rewarded for exceptional performance, all units are strongly encouraged to participate in Bravo.
 Award amounts may range from $100 to $1,000 with a limit of two awards per fiscal year for individual faculty and staff, given the value and application of the accomplishment.
 Each unit can provide Bravo Awards up to a maximum of 10 percent of its eligible faculty and staff in the following employee categories:
 * Tenured/tenure-track faculty, clinical/professional faculty, research faculty and continuing lecturers. * Moving the University Forward: Accomplishments or contributions that transform or advance University objectives (i.e.
, initiatives that improve graduation rates, development of programs to measure student academic knowledge, enhancing the academic excellence of the University, improving student affordability, etc.
). * Operational Excellence: Extraordinary effort during times of critical department need (e.g., contribution that clearly and significantly exceeds standard job requirements and impacts the accomplishments of important and critical business operational goals and deliverables).
 * Innovation/Creativity: Innovative work or suggestions, well beyond standard job requirements, that significantly improve operational efficiencies, introduce a new or modified business practice or improve work process, workflow or customer service.
 * Fiscal Stewardship: Significant cost saving or cost avoidance realized beyond normally expected or established standards. Each college/unit will establish its own nomination and award process.
 Additional details on the Bravo program, including a complete description of eligibility criteria, are available at www.purdue.edu/bravo
.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/new-service-helps-schools-adapt-classrooms-for-students-who-are-blind-or-visually-impaired.html
<Content> New service helps schools adapt classrooms for students who are blind or visually impaired
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Students who are blind or visually impaired could have even better classroom experiences in STEM courses thanks to a new service for school districts, teachers and parents.
 Independence Science Inc. has launched the Adaptation Support Program, a support service primarily designed to assist instruction in science, technology, engineering and mathematics - the STEM fields.
 Subscribers receive phone and email support from educators who are experienced in instructing students who are blind or visually impaired in K-12 and college settings.
 Cary Supalo, founder of Independence Science, said the Adaptation Support Program includes several features that could help educators provide a more accessible environment.
 "Subscribers will receive detailed assistance with Individual Education Plans (IEPs), personal consultations, environmental recommendations, directions for complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act, and techniques to adapt and modify laboratory equipment," he said.
 "We believe this program will serve as a valuable resource for teachers and parents across the United States. Science education mandates require that all students complete high school science components in order to graduate, and our staff is trained to offer the best recommendations.
" Supalo said the program will complement the company's Sci-Voice Lab Solution, which adapts commonly used laboratory technology for students who are visually impaired.
 "The Adaptation Support Program will assist teachers and parents in properly modifying the classroom," he said. "Experience has shown that access to adapted tools, graphics and techniques greatly improve a student's concept development and overall understanding of course material.
" Roger Tower, director of outreach at Independence Science, said the current means of adaptation support sometimes can be difficult to find.
 "This often leads to an unsatisfactory experience for the students," he said. "We are offering unlimited phone and email support from industry experts to better spread knowledge about how to adapt materials in the laboratory for students who have visual impairments.
" The Adaptation Support Program can be purchased yearly for an individual user or multiple users. Call Independence Science at 866-862-9665 or visit 
http://www.independencescience.com/resource-program.php to learn more or subscribe and receive immediate support. Researchers at 
Independence Science are making their expertise available to help school districts, colleges, universities and state rehabilitation agencies across the country meet Americans with Disabilities Act requirements in the science curriculum.
 The Sci-Voice Lab Solution includes adapted technologies and methodologies to help make science courses more accessible for students who are blind or have low vision.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 240 companies that employ about 4,500 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Source: Roger Tower, 866-862-9665, rtower@independencescience.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/new-steering-tech-for-heavy-equipment-saves-fuel,-ups-efficiency.html
<Content> New steering tech for heavy equipment saves fuel, ups efficiency
 Purdue University professor Monika Ivantysynova and doctoral student Naseem Daher discuss research related to a new hydraulic-steering technology, while graduate student Michael Sprengel looks over the electronic controls of a front loader.
 Researchers led by Ivantysynova, the Maha Fluid Power Systems Professor, have shown how to reduce fuel consumption while dramatically improving the efficiency of hydraulic steering systems in heavy construction equipment.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Researchers at Purdue University have shown how to reduce fuel consumption while improving the efficiency of hydraulic steering systems in heavy construction equipment.
 The new approach incorporates several innovations: It eliminates valves now needed to direct the flow of hydraulic fluid in steering systems and uses advanced algorithms and models to precisely control hydraulic pumps.
 New designs might also incorporate textured "microstructured" surfaces inside pumps to improve performance. "Fuel consumption of heavy off-road equipment accounts for a significant portion of total global fuel usage, so improving efficiency is very important," said 
Monika Ivantysynova, Maha Fluid Power Systems Professor in Purdue's School of Mechanical Engineering. "It's also important from a commercial business point of view because money saved on fuel improves a company's bottom line.
" Typical hydraulic systems in heavy equipment use a central "variable displacement pump" that delivers fluid, and valves that throttle the flow of fluid to linear and rotary "actuators" that move tools such as shovels, buckets and steering mechanisms.
 This throttling causes energy to be dissipated as heat and wasted. In the new valveless design, each actuator has its own pump, eliminating the need for valves.
 The actuator motion can be precisely controlled by adjusting the pump displacement, which changes the amount of fluid being delivered to the actuator.
 Being able to adjust the pump displacement makes it possible to run the machinery's diesel engine at optimal speeds, resulting in additional fuel savings.
 Findings are detailed in a research paper being presented during the SAE 2013 Commercial Vehicle Engineering Congress on Oct. 1-3 in Rosemont, Ill.
 The paper was authored by doctoral student Naseem Daher and Ivantysynova, director of Purdue's Maha Fluid Power Research Center.
 Present hydrostatic steering systems are plagued by poor energy efficiency, and industry is developing new "steer-by-wire technologies" to reduce fuel consumption and improve performance.
 However, the steer-by-wire systems being developed still require energy-wasting valves. Testing the new "electro-hydraulic power steering system" on a front loader has shown a 15 percent fuel savings and 23 percent increased machine productivity, for a total fuel efficiency increase of 43 percent during steering maneuvers.
 "The world’s first pump-controlled steer-by-wire prototype machine is now readily available for further research and development," said Ivantysynova, who has a dual appointment in the Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering.
 In previous projects, Maha researchers have shown that valveless systems could reduce fuel consumption by 40 percent in an excavator equipped with the technology.
 Measurements on the same excavator prototype also showed 70 percent productivity improvement in terms of tons of soil removed per kilogram of fuel consumed.
 The new steering system also may help reduce operator fatigue while improving safety by controlling the level of "steering-wheel torque feedback.
" Steer-by-wire technology removes all torque - the twisting force required to turn the steering wheel. However, removing the torque is potentially dangerous because the driver lacks the tactile feedback needed to properly control the vehicle.
 In the new system, torque feedback is regulated according to parameters such as steering wheel angle and turning speed, vehicle speed and the angle of a rotating joint that connects the vehicle's two subframes.
 New thermodynamic modeling by the group also has found that steel parts in the pump undergo significant deformations from high heat during operation.
 "The deformation due to heat can be as large as the thickness of the lubricating film, and this is very important," she said. "We have developed the only code that models these lubricating interfaces under extreme heat and high pressure.
" The research paper includes details of the system's layout, the hardware and electronic controller developed through the use of modeling.
 The researchers developed and used the modeling to simulate the system's performance. The Purdue laboratory is working with industry partners on applied research projects, said Anthony Franklin, the Maha lab's manager.
 "Our prototypes are very close to commercial prototypes, so they are readily adaptable to machines now in use and can be easily industrialized when manufacturers
 decide to make the transition into valveless systems," he said. The Maha Fluid Power Research Center is part of the Engineering Research Center for Compact and Efficient Fluid Power, funded by the National Science Foundation, participating companies and universities.
 Modern on-road vehicles have been making steady strides when it comes to employing technological advances featuring active safety systems.
 However, off-highway machines are lagging in this area and are in dire need for modernization. One chassis system that has been receiving much attention in the automotive field is the steering system, where several electric and electrohydraulic steering architectures have been implemented and steer-by-wire technologies are under current research and development activities.
 On the other hand, off-highway articulated steering vehicles have not adequately evolved to meet the needs of Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) as well as their end customers.
 Present-day hydrostatic steering systems are plagued with poor energy efficiency due to valve throttling losses and are considered passive systems relative to safety, adjustability, and comfort.
 His paper introduces a novel scheme of an electro-hydraulic power steering system that utilizes a proven energy-saving technology, pump displacement control, which eliminates throttling losses associated with hydraulic control valves by controlling the displacement of a variable displacement pump.
 This new architecture lends itself to high-energy efficiency, resulting in lower fuel consumption and reduced emissions, higher machine productivity and reduced operator fatigue, and active safety functions that counteract instabilities and reject disturbances.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/new-students-begin-purdue-experience-with-orientation-program.html
<Content> New students begin Purdue experience with orientation program
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Boiler Gold Rush, the Purdue University new student orientation program involving about 5,500 new students, this year features an expanded program for international students and enhancements of components added to last year's event.
 The second Boiler Gold Rush International (BGRi) began Tuesday (Aug. 6) and runs through Sunday (Aug. 11). It is designed to help new and transferring international undergraduate students adjust and acclimate to university life in the United States and also will help them transition into the one-week Boiler Gold Rush (BGR) program that is Aug.
 11-18. During BGRi, students will temporarily live in one residence hall and be assigned student mentors. Time will also be allotted for them to work with the Office of International Students and Scholars.
 The programming includes topics on Purdue resources and aspects of higher education in the United States. The small-group format will help new students build relationships with their mentors and with one another.
 "BGRi is bigger this year," said Dan Carpenter, senior associate director of Student Success at Purdue. "Nearly 600 students will participate this year, compared to about 350 last year.
 International students said last year's program really helped them, and we know that it contributed to participants' overall success at Purdue.
" Carpenter said several events have been added to the core program, BGR. All are aimed at improving students' academic success. 
These include the new-student induction ceremony. The event features university faculty and administrators, attired in academic regalia, taking the stage inside Elliott Hall of Music.
 President Mitch Daniels will speak and officially welcome the class of 2017, Carpenter said. Another academic success-oriented event is a day focused on large enrollment courses that students will face during their first semester.
 The Aug. 15 activities include preview sessions for these foundational courses, along with sessions on using technology to enhance learning offered by Information Technology at Purdue (ITaP).
 "We had mock lectures and academic preview sessions last year as a pilot program," Carpenter said. "We have institutionalized and expanded it.
 Last year, faculty offered five high-enrollment courses to give students a preview. Faculty recognized the opportunity this presents to enhance student success and have worked with us to offer 13 sessions this year.
" Carpenter said each of the colleges and schools at Purdue will again offer new-student welcome programs during BGR. "This is something else all of the programs did last year, and it had quite a bit of success," he said of the sessions that help connect students with faculty and staff from their programs.
 "The improvement this year is that nearly all of these programs will be held at the same time, which should enhance overall attendance.
" A new feature will be the Boiler Bridge Bash, from 6-9 p.m. Aug. 15 at Tapawingo Park in West Lafayette, the John T Myers Pedestrian Bridge and Riehle Plaza in Lafayette.
 Carpenter said the event is designed to encourage students to explore Lafayette and will include tricycle races, bicycle polo and a group bicycle ride.
 For more information, visit https://www.facebook.com/BoilerBridgeBash Carpenter said student mentors are being asked to maintain their role with new students after BGR ends.
 "Every year we recruit, select and train about 500 students to help lead BGR. Their role as leaders formally ended when BGR ended," Carpenter said.
 "Although in many cases leaders would have some contact with students, it wasn't a formal process. Now we're formalizing that, and the student leaders are expected to remain connected to their new students and serve as mentors to new students throughout their first academic year.
" Also, Carpenter said that President Daniels asked BRG staff to increase the program's focus on four issues: diversity and inclusion, pedestrian and bicycle safety, financial literacy and debt and academic honesty.
 "Those were already elements of the program but there will be some enhancements this year," Carpenter said </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/new-system-for-purdue-libraries-will-streamline-workflows,-improve-analytics.html
<Content> New system for Purdue Libraries will streamline workflows, improve analytics
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University Libraries has helped develop and launch a new library management system to improve workflow effectiveness and improve collection analysis.
 The Alma replaces Voyager and SFX and includes functions associated with an integrated library system and electronic resources management system.
 Purdue Libraries co-developed Alma with Ex Libris, Princeton University, Boston College and the University of Leuven in Belgium and is one of the early institutions to adopt the system.
 Many Purdue Libraries faculty and staff have been involved in the planning and implementation of Alma over the last few years to ensure a successful launch.
 Further information regarding the system's key features will be communicated in the coming weeks. Those with questions can contact Paul Bracke, associate dean for digital programs and information access and associate professor of library science, at 765-496-3606 or 
pbracke@purdue.edu; or George Stachokas, assistant professor and head of resource services at 765- 494-2812 or gstachok@purdue.edu
. Contact: Shannon Walker, Director of Strategic Communication, Purdue University Libraries, 765-496-9610, walker81@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/new-video-highlights-how-tech-is-transforming-higher-ed.html
<Content> New video highlights how tech is transforming higher ed
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Just as technology has transformed businesses that deal in information delivery, such as journalism and book publishing, many experts also expect that electronic technologies will transform higher education.
 But Gerry McCartney, Purdue University's CIO, vice president for information technology and Olga Oesterle England Professor of Technology, says he believes the digital transformation won't soon happen in the way many people think.
 "Much of the attention over the past year has focused on massive open online courses, or MOOCs," McCartney says. "MOOCs offer ample parking, friendly greeters and low, low prices.
 They are a fascinating experiment in delivering educational content at scale, but I don't believe that they will have a long-term effect on higher education in their present form.
" Instead, McCartney has identified four other megatrends that he predicts will transform higher education. To highlight the areas of change, McCartney and his staff created a video called "The New Logistics of Knowledge.
" The video can be found on the associated website at http://www.purdue.edu/newlogisticsofknowledge "In the video we attempted to show, in as concise a way as possible, how quickly and dramatically consumer behavior is changing in the United States and the world, and how Purdue has responded to these changes to this point," McCartney says.
 The video focuses on key indicators in four areas that McCartney says can be viewed as either challenges or opportunities. Regardless, he says, change will come in these four areas over the next few years.
 Today, people can buy something online at any hour of the day, any day of the year, and they do. Although online sales are hardly news, in 2012 North American online retail sales increased 36 percent.
 Even more striking is the rapid increase of purchases made through mobile devices. Similarly, McCartney predicts that people will expect to be able to consume educational material 24 hours a day from almost any location.
 "What this means for universities is that we can't just be open from 8 to 5 any longer," he says. "Students need assistance, scientists need resources, applicants need information at all hours of the day, every day of the year.
 We need to be ready to provide that." In 2009 mobile device traffic accounted for just 1 percent of Internet traffic in the United States.
 In 2012 that had increased to 13 percent, and it is projected to be 80 percent by 2015. "This will mean more than just making sure that our websites can be viewed on mobile devices," McCartney says.
 "These devices offer too many advantages to not do our best to see how we can use them to improve student success and engagement in their courses.
" Whatever the final judgment on MOOCs, it is obvious that today's students, and students over the next decade, will be taught in ways other than just the familiar professor at the front of a classroom.
 Already, in the United States, surveys show that 31 percent of current college students are projected to take at least one online course during their college careers.
 "Whether MOOCs find their role or not, it's clear that video and digital delivery of content will become increasingly necessary," McCartney says.
 "Flipped classrooms, for example, in which students watch a video lecture before coming to class, and then spend class time in hands-on exercises, are being used increasingly across the nation, including in Purdue's IMPACT program.
 Few universities are ready to deal with that." Three emerging tools will be critical to the success of digital scholars, whether they are students, instructors or researchers: Social media; data scholarship, especially the analysis of large data sets, known as "Big Data"; and cloud computing.
 These are already having an effect on how students and faculty conduct their work, and McCartney says universities must do much more to accommodate and support these new tools.
 "Big Data, in particular, has the potential to transform not only the academic disciplines, but also the ways we teach and do research," McCartney says.
 "I predict that Big Data will be as important and transformational to academia over the next decade as the Internet has been over the past decade.
" McCartney says the video, "The New Logistics of Knowledge," offers a glimpse at key indicators that will shape higher education in the coming years.
 "We don't try to provide solutions, although we do provide examples of what Purdue is doing to address these changes," McCartney says.
 "But there is much more work to be done at all universities. If the needed changes can be likened to a drive from Chicago to Los Angeles, we're just in Naperville, just in the suburbs.
 We have a long way to go." A new Purdue video shows how changes in technology and behavior of U.S. consumers is driving changes in higher education.
 The video can be found at http://www.purdue.edu/newlogisticsofknowledge. (Purdue University image) </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/newly-hired-non-exempt-staff-to-participate-in-new-retirement-plan.html
<Content> Newly hired non-exempt staff to participate in new retirement plan
 New clerical, service and operations/technical employees hired on or after Sept. 9 will be enrolled in a new Non-Exempt Defined Contribution Plan to be administered by Fidelity.
 The University will make a base contribution of 4 percent of an eligible employee's salary and earnings to a 403(b) Defined Contribution Plan, as well as match up to 4 percent of the employee's voluntary contributions.
 Thirty days after being notified about the opportunity to contribute to the Voluntary Savings retirement plan, these newly hired employees will be automatically enrolled at a rate of 5 percent of pretax earnings to be deducted from pay.
 To begin contributions sooner and maximize the University's matching contribution, they are invited to log into NetBenefits at http://plan.fidelity.com/purdue
 and click "Access Your Account." Employees may change the amount they set aside for retirement at any time. To receive Purdue's matching contribution, an employee must contribute to the 403(b) Voluntary Savings retirement plan.
 Non-exempt employees (clerical and service staff and operations/technical assistants) hired before Sept. 9 who currently participate in PERF's defined benefit plan will remain in that plan.
 For staff transfers, rehires, reclassifications and other changes, Benefits has created an Interactive Retirement Guide, found at 
https://www2.itap.purdue.edu/BS/HRCALCULATORS/RetirementCalculator/RetirementCalculator.html, to walk employees through those changes and their impact on an employee's retirement plan.
 Frequently asked questions about the new plan can be found at www.purdue.edu/hr/pdf/nonExemptDCFAQs.pdf. For more information on the Non-Exempt Defined Contribution Plan, or to schedule a one-on-one consultation with Fidelity, go to 
http://plan.fidelity.com/purdue or call 800-642-7131. Additional details are also available at www.purdue.edu/hr/Benefits/retirement.html
.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/nigerian-company-licenses-purdue-crop-storage-system-that-deters-insects.html
<Content> Nigerian company licenses Purdue crop storage system that deters insects
 The Purdue Improved Crop Storage is a three-bag, non-chemical hermetic storage system that limits the reproductive capacity of cowpea weevils that consumes grain after harvest.
 The system was developed by Purdue entomologist Larry Murdock and has been licensed to Kano, Nigeria-based Lela Agro Industries Nigeria Ltd.
 (Purdue University Agricultural Communications photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind., and KANO, Nigeria - Farmers in West and Central African nations could benefit economically, socially and nutritionally using a crop storage system developed by researchers at Purdue University and licensed to Kano-based Lela Agro Industries Nigeria Ltd.
 The Purdue Improved Crop Storage (PICS) system was developed by Larry L. Murdock, professor of entomology in the Purdue College of Agriculture
, and scientists in Cameroon. The research was funded by a USAID program and supported by Purdue's International Programs in Agriculture.
 Murdock said PICS originally was developed to store cowpeas, or black-eyed peas, which are eaten in storage by cowpea weevils, an invasive insect.
 The system reduces the amount of damage the weevils inflict upon stored cowpeas. "Cowpea weevils have an amazing reproductive capacity and can destroy any store of grain many times over in less than a year.
 A single female cowpea weevil can produce 60 male and female offspring in one month or less. In another month there are 1,800 cowpea weevils and 54,000 the month after that," he said.
 "The numbers keep rising until everything edible is rendered worthless." Murdock said the system uses hermetically sealed bags, which means they have the quality of being airtight.
 "The PICS bags are uninhabitable environments for cowpea weevils," he said. "The keys to the success of PICS are that insect reproduction is essentially stopped quickly and most eventually die of dehydration.
" James "Jess" M. Lowenberg-DeBoer, associate dean in the College of Agriculture and director of International Programs in Agriculture
, said PICS has been used throughout the world, with around 2.5 million bags being sold to date. From left, managing director Kabir Jibrin of the Kano Agricultural and Rural Development Authority, interim management officer Alhaji Hussaini Ali Ajingi of the Gezawa LGA in the Kano State, chairman of the People's Democratic Party Alhaji Shaibu Danbalof the Gezawa LGA, and head of Department of Agriculture Lawan Abubakar of the Gezawa LGA inspect cowpeas stored using the Purdue Improved Crop Storage system.
 The system has been licensed through the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization to Kano-based Lela Agro Industries Nigeria Ltd.
 (Purdue College of Agriculture photo) "PICS bags are used on a large scale in 10 African countries with support from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Ghana, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Tchad and Togo," he said. "The system also has been used in Rwanda, with funding from the USAID office in Kigali, as well as Afghanistan, Burundi, Ethiopia, India, Kenya, Laos, Malawi, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
" Sani Moussa, who grows cowpeas in the Maradi Region of Niger, has used PICS since 2010. Before then, weevils destroyed the crops he stored.
 "I remember storing three sacks of cowpeas, and after four months in storage there was nothing left," he said. "Because I could not store grains for a long time, I had to sell them when prices were low.
 Consequently, the production could not cover daily needs, including socio-economic needs such as marriages and naming ceremonies.
" "With the arrival of the PICS bags, my storage increased three times that I had before because I had no fear of losses due to insect damage," he said.
 "I can now wait to sell until the period when cowpea prices are high and increase my profits." Moussa Maman, who also grows cowpeas in the Maradi Region, has used PICS since 2009.
 Before then, he lost more than 50 percent of his grain in storage due to cowpea weevils. As a result, he had to sell his harvest when prices were low.
 "Now that I use PICS, I can store two or three times the quantity that I could store before. My income also has increased two or three times," he said.
 "One no longer has any worries about storing food. People gain a benefit from their production," he said. Hassan Fawaz, managing director at Lela Agro, said the company will manufacture more than one million PICS bags in 2013, selling most in Nigeria but exporting around 100,000 to neighboring countries.
 The company plans to expand production to more than 1.5 million bags in 2014. "PICS bags are more effective than other bags because they are made of 80 micron-thick, high-density materials.
 They are more cost-effective hermetic containers for most uses than metal drums or plastic jugs," he said. "PICS bags are easy to use, which makes them an improvement upon storage insecticides, which could be misused to harmful effect.
" Lela Agro also has licensed the trademarked PICS logo. Other companies have manufactured counterfeit bags they claim are PICS and have the same characteristics.
 These manufacturers will not have access to the PICS logo, which means farmers will be able to differentiate between them. Tests have been conducted the last two years to determine if PICS is effective in stopping storage insects that attack other grains like corn, wheat, rice, soybeans, sorghum, millet, chickpeas and hibiscus seed.
 This work is being done under the PICS2 grant funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. "We believe PICS will effectively control most insect pests of many commodities, as long as the commodities have low moisture contents when stored," Murdock said.
 A video of Murdock describing the development of PICS is available at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WRR9pS7B0W8&list=PL79881F1936651691&index=7
. A video of the PICS system being used in Niger is available at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cRR1RvvW3ck. Both videos are from the Purdue College of Agriculture.
 Purdue University's patented technologies include new cancer treatments, alternative fuels, biomedical devices, crop improvement and others and are available for licensing through the Office of Technology Commercialization.
 For more information, call 765-588-3475, email otcip@prf.org or visit http://www.otc-prf.org/otc The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization
 operates one of the most comprehensive technology transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States. Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 Larry L. Murdock, 765-494-4592, murdockl@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/nih-grant-could-develop-technology-to-help-personalize-leukemia-treatments.html
<Content> NIH grant could develop technology to help personalize leukemia treatments
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. and MEMPHIS, Tenn. - People affected by leukemia and health care professionals who advocate for personalized medicine options could benefit from technology that is being developed with funding from a 
National Institutes of Health grant. Tymora Analytical Operations LLC, Purdue University and St. Jude Children's Research Hospital (http://www.stjude.org) have been awarded a one-year, $300,000 Phase I STTR grant from the NIH.
 The groups will develop technology that could pinpoint the proteins inside cells affected by the disease so treatments can be more targeted.
 "By showing which proteins are affected by the disease, this platform can highlight the differences between leukemia cells," said Anton Iliuk, chief technology officer of Tymora Analytical Operations.
 "Identifying these differences would enable doctors to prescribe individualized, more precise drug treatment regimens for each patient.
" The principal investigator for the project is W. Andy Tao, associate professor of biochemistry in Purdue's College of Agriculture
. He also is chief scientific officer at Tymora Analytical Operations. The co-investigator is Jun J. Yang of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis.
 Tymora Analytical Operations was established in 2010 in the Purdue Research Park to provide new nanotechnology-based products to serve the R&D market in the life sciences.
 Tymora has developed a nanoscale platform technology - with PolyMAC and pIMAGO as the lead products - for unmet needs in analysis of protein phosphorylation that relates to the onset of numerous diseases, most notably cancer.
 The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country in four locations across Indiana.
 The parks are home to nearly 240 companies that employ more than 4,200 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 Source: Anton Iliuk, 765-490-6834, anton.iliuk@tymora-analytical.com </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q2/no-sleep-energy-bugs-drain-smartphone-batteries.html
<Content> 'No-sleep energy bugs' drain smartphone batteries
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Researchers have proposed a method to automatically detect a new class of software glitches in smartphones called "no-sleep energy bugs," which can entirely drain batteries while the phones are not in use.
 "These energy bugs are a silent battery killer," said Y. Charlie Hu, a Purdue University professor of electrical and computer engineering.
 "A fully charged phone battery can be drained in as little as five hours." Because conserving battery power is critical for smartphones, the industry has adopted "an aggressive sleep policy," he said.
 "What this means is that smartphones are always in a sleep mode, by default. When there are no active user interactions such as screen touches, every component, including the central processor, stays off unless an app instructs the operating system to keep it on.
" "For example, a mailer may need to automatically update email by checking with the remote server," Hu said. To prevent the phone from going to sleep during such operations, smartphone manufacturers make application programming interfaces, or APIs, available to app developers.
 The developers insert the APIs into apps to instruct the phone to stay awake long enough to perform necessary operations. "App developers have to explicitly juggle different power control APIs that are exported from the operating systems of the smartphones," Hu said.
 "Unfortunately, programmers are only human. They make mistakes when using these APIs, which leads to software bugs that mishandle power control, preventing the phone from engaging the sleep mode.
 As a result, the phone stays awake and drains the battery." Findings are detailed in a research paper being presented during the 10th International Conference on Mobile Systems, Applications and Services, or 
MobiSys 2012, June 25-29 in the United Kingdom. The paper was written by doctoral students Abhinav Pathak and Abhilash Jindal, Hu, and Samuel Midkiff, a Purdue professor of electrical and computer engineering.
 The researchers have completed the first systematic study of the no-sleep bugs and have proposed a method for automatically detecting them.
 "We've had anecdotal evidence concerning these no-sleep energy bugs, but there has not been any systematic study of them until now," Midkiff said.
 The researchers studied 187 Android applications that were found to contain Android's explicit power control APIs, called "wakelocks.
" Of the 187 apps, 42 were found to contain errors - or bugs - in their wakelock code. Findings showed the new tool accurately detected all 12 previously known instances of no-sleep energy bugs and found 30 new bugs in the apps.
 The glitch has been found in interactive apps, such as phone applications and services for telephony on Android that must work even though the user isn't touching the phone.
 The app may fail to engage the sleep mode after the interactive session is completed. "You don't see any difference," Hu said. "You put it in your pocket and you think everything is fine.
 You take it out, and your battery is dead." To detect bugs in the applications, the researchers modified a tool called a compiler, which translates code written in computer languages into the binary code that computers understand.
 The tool they developed adds new functionality to the compiler so that it can determine where no-sleep bugs might exist. "The tool analyzes the binary code and automatically and accurately detects the presence of the no-sleep bugs," Midkiff said.
 The Purdue researchers have coined the term "power-encumbered programming" to describe the smartphone energy bugs. Researchers concentrated on the Android smartphone, but the same types of bugs appear to affect other brands, Hu said.
 The research has been funded in part by the National Science Foundation. Pathak is supported by an Intel Ph.D. fellowship. Note to Journalists
: An electronic copy of the research paper is available by contacting Emil Venere, Purdue News Service, at 765-494-4709, venere@purdue.edu
. Abhinav Pathak (pathaka@purdue.edu), Abhilash Jindal (jindal0@purdue.edu), Y. Charlie Hu (ychu@purdue.edu) and Samuel P. Midkiff, (
smidkiff@ecn.purdue.edu) Despite their immense popularity in recent years, smartphones are, and will remain, severely limited by their battery life.
 Preserving this critical resource has driven smartphone OSes to undergo a paradigm shift in power management: by default every component, including the CPU, stays off or in an idle state, unless the app explicitly instructs the OS to keep it on.
 Such a policy encumbers app developers to explicitly juggle power control APIs exported by the OS to keep the components on during their active use by the app and off otherwise.
 The resulting power-encumbered programming unavoidably gives rise to a new class of software energy bugs on smartphones called no-sleep bugs, which arise from mishandling power control APIs by apps or the framework and result in signi&#64257;cant and unexpected battery drainage.
 This paper makes the &#64257;rst advances towards understanding and automatically detecting software energy bugs on smartphones.
 It makes the following three contributions: (1) We present the &#64257;rst comprehensive study of real-world no-sleep energy bug characteristics; (2) We propose the &#64257;rst automatic solution to detect these bugs based on the classic reaching de&#64257;nitions data&#64258;ow analysis algorithm; (3) We provide experimental data showing that our tool accurately detected all 12 known instances of no-sleep bugs and found 30 new bugs in the 86 apps examined.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/noah-named-vice-president-for-development.html
<Content> Noah named vice president for development
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Amy Noah has been named vice president for development, effective immediately, after having served as interim vice president since April 1.
 "Amy's performance in the interim role has validated her readiness for this job. She has an extremely successful background in fundraising at Purdue, as well as being highly regarded and well-respected among our many university stakeholders," said Purdue President Mitch Daniels, who announced the appointment on Friday (Nov.
 1). "Her commitment and dedication to this university make her the ideal choice for this position, and I look forward to continuing to work with her on building and strengthening Purdue's fundraising activity.
" A 1994 Purdue graduate, Noah has worked at the university in the Development Office for more than 12 years. She spent the first 10 years of her development career in the College of Engineering.
 Beginning in September 2011, she served as associate vice president for advancement in the University Development Office. As associate vice president, she oversaw development efforts in all schools and programs within the colleges of Engineering and Technology as well as Libraries and University Press, Discovery Park, WBAA, University Corporate and Foundation Relations, Planned Giving, and Purdue's West Coast development initiatives.
 Since becoming interim vice president, she has worked in direct partnership with Daniels to lead university-wide fundraising efforts.
 "I am thrilled to be asked to lead this amazing group of individuals and to continue serving this institution that I believe in so strongly," Noah said.
 "Our goal, as always, will be to seek the private financial support that will help Purdue achieve success in learning, discovery and engagement.
" The University Development Office plans, coordinates and implements fundraising programs among alumni, friends, corporations and foundations.
 Private giving has averaged $235.5 million over the past 12 years and has resulted in many new student scholarship funds, faculty support, facilities and innovative new programs.
 Contact: Shelley Triol, assistant vice president for external relations, 765-496-2644, striol@purdue.edu Source: Amy Noah, 765-494-0519, 
arnoah@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/nominations-sought-for-women-in-agriculture-awards.html
<Content> Nominations sought for Women in Agriculture awards
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The Purdue Extension Women in Agriculture Team has begun accepting nominations for the 2013 Women in Agriculture
 Awards. The two awards - the Leadership Award and Achievement Award - are presented annually to women who demonstrate leadership and innovation and make positive contributions to Indiana agriculture, through their work in agricultural enterprises, agribusiness, farms or commodity organizations.
 The Leadership Award honors women who serve Indiana agriculture through agribusiness or policymaking, while the Achievement Award is given to women who are directly involved in a home farming operation.
 Both awards consist of a recognition plaque and registration and lodging at the 2014 Women in Agriculture Conference. Women may nominate themselves or be nominated by peers.
 Nominations are due by May 31, and the awards will be presented Aug. 14 at the Indiana State Fair in Indianapolis as part of the lieutenant governor's Celebration of Agriculture ceremony.
 Nomination forms are available at http://www.extension.purdue.edu/wia/Awards/WIA%202013%20award%20application.pdf. "Purdue University is proud to recognize the leadership roles of women in agriculture," said Jeanette Merritt, marketing director for Purdue Wine Grape Team & Indiana Wines and a member of the Purdue Women in Agriculture Team.
 "Women play a vital role in the agriculture sector in Indiana. From leadership roles in commodity groups, working to educate children about farming, to actual work on a farm, agriculture would not be as strong as it is without women playing a leadership role.
" The 2007 Census of Agriculture showed that women's presence in agriculture is continuing to grow. In 2007, more than 1 million farm operators were women, comprising 30 percent of all farm operators in the U.S.
 Additionally, the number of women serving as principal operators, responsible for making most of the daily decisions on their farms or ranches, grew by 29 percent between 2002 and 2007 to more than 300,000 nationwide.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/non-invasive-diabetic-testing-device,-personalized-cancer-care-technique-claim-top-prizes-at-100,000-burton-d.-morgan-business-plan-competition.html
<Content> Non-invasive diabetic testing device, personalized cancer-care technique claim top prizes at $100,000 Burton D. Morgan Business Plan Competition
 Non-invasive diabetic testing device, personalized cancer-care technique claim top prizes at $100,000 Burton D. Morgan Business Plan Competition
 Physics doctoral student Ran An answers question from judges during his Gold Division presentation in winning the $30,000 top prize at the 26th annual Burton D.
 Morgan Business Plan Competition. His company concept, Animated Dynamics, is developing technology designed to offer a new laboratory approach for selecting the best anticancer drugs for patients.
 (Purdue University photo/John Underwood) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A device for non-invasive diabetic testing and a biological imaging technique for personalized cancer care won top prizes Tuesday (Feb.
 19) at the $100,000 Burton D. Morgan Business Plan Competition in Purdue University's Discovery Park. In the Gold Division, Animated Dynamics
 won $30,000 for its efforts to commercialize a new laboratory approach for helping select the best anticancer drugs for patients.
 Using tissue dynamics spectroscopy (TDS), physics doctoral student Ran An and Purdue physics professors David Nolte and John Turek are developing the technique that captures dynamic cellular motions deep inside living tissue.
 NanoBio Interface Systems, a nanotechnology-based in vitro diagnostics company advancing a novel technique for testing blood sugar levels, claimed the $20,000 first prize in the Black Division for undergraduate students.
 The company, known as NBI, is led by Purdue communications and philosophy major Aaron Trembath. "This is an incredible accomplishment for all 10 student-led presentations just to make the finals, with nearly 100 proposals submitted when this process started months ago," said Richard Cosier, the Avrum and Joyce Gray Director of the 
Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship and Purdue's Leeds Professor of Management. "Every student leaves this competition a winner, but Animated Dynamics and NanoBio rose above the rest in their presentations and how close they are to becoming real companies contributing to our economy and helping society.
" Each team had 20 minutes to present their plans and 10 minutes for questions from the panel of 10 judges during the event at the Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship. Sponsors for the event, marking its 26th year, are the Burton D. Morgan Foundation, Ice Miller LLC, Purdue's Krannert School of Management and the Purdue Research Park.
 In the Gold Division for graduate students, Team VACCINE claimed the $15,000 second prize for its advanced law enforcement toolkit software.
 Team VACCINE members Abish Malik, Silvia Oliveros, Satish Kunchakuri and Nimish Dharawat are developing software for equipping law enforcement agencies and citizens with situational awareness and risk assessment tools for analyzing criminal, traffic and civil incident patterns in their neighborhoods.
 Telos Discovery Systems, which is advancing a drug-discovery product that eliminates the need for researcher-mouse interaction, received the $7,500 third-place prize.
 Led by Ted Daniels, Telos is advancing a technology that could yield more accurate behavioral data and a tenfold increase in experimental throughput.
 Finalists receiving $3,750 each in the Gold Division were Skyepack and Applied Battery Technology. Led by Nick McCollum, Skyepack is a content-focused educational software environment designed to facilitate the delivery of learn-anywhere mobile content as an alternative to texts, course packs and class handouts.
 Applied Battery Technology, led by Mark Suchomel and Subhash Ghosh, is developing a novel battery-sensing technology in development to increase rechargeable battery reliability and safety and reduce application costs for equal end-user performance across all sectors.
 Purdue communications and philosophy major Aaron Trembath delivers his winning business plan competition in the Black Division for his company concept, NanoBio Interface Systems.
 Trembath claimed the $20,000 first prize for this non-invasive diagnostic tool to test for diabetes. (Purdue University photo/John Underwood) 
Download Photo In the Black Division, Cornucopia Farm, an agritourism operation in Scottsburg, Ind., finished second and received $10,000.
 Presenter Michael Baird, who is studying horticultural production and marketing and agricultural management, has a new business plan to expand seasonal education and entertainment operations at his family-owned business.
 E3 Labs, a nonprofit organization developing products and services that address basic needs, quality of life and scarcity issues for developing countries, was third, receiving $5,000.
 Nicolas Guerra-Mondragon and Fernando Segovia are the lead team members for E3. The other two finalists were TappedIn and Super Resolution, each receiving $2,500 for their presentations.
 TappedIn, led by liberal arts major Kevin Lee, is a planned mobile application for iPhones and iPads that allows bars and restaurants to highlight what beers are currently on tap.
 Super Resolution team members Yuxing Zhang, Colin Sandbach and Jian-Wei Khor are working on an optic technique and device to improve the resolution of imaging systems for research microscopes and telescopes.
 In addition to the cash prizes, Ice Miller will provide free legal and consulting services to the top three Gold Division finishers, valued at $5,000 for Animated Dynamics, $3,000 for Team VACCINE and $2,000 for Telos.
 The Purdue Research Park also will provide incubator space for those three companies. Krannert will provide one free registration in its 2013 Applied Management Principles (AMP) condensed management certificate program to Animated Dynamics.
 With a value of $4,995, AMP is offered by Krannert's Executive Education Programs. In the Black Division, Nano Bio, Cornucopia Farm and E3 Labs receive free affiliate status from the Purdue Research Park, giving them access to consulting, coaching and other park resources.
 Nano Bio also wins a free registration in Krannert's AMP certificate program. The entrepreneurship competition started in 1987 with an endowment gift to Purdue from the Burton D.
 Morgan Foundation. The Morgan Foundation also funded the $7 million, 31,000-square-foot Center for Entrepreneurship. The center leads Purdue's Kauffman Campuses Initiative, which is focused on making entrepreneurship education available across the university's main and regional campuses, enabling any student, regardless of field of study, access to entrepreneurial training.
 The late Burton D. Morgan was a Purdue alumnus who started 50 companies, six of which have become major corporations, including Morgan Adhesives, one of the world's largest makers of pressure-sensitive adhesives.
 He also was president of Basic Search Co., an idea-development firm, and wrote several books on entrepreneurism. Aaron Trembath, 765-337-3570, 
Aaron@NBIsystems.org </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/november-weekend-exhibition-features-variety-of-installation-art.html
<Content> November weekend exhibition features variety of installation art
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A variety of art installations by 12 Purdue University artists will be on exhibit Nov. 22-24 in downtown Lafayette.
 "BETWEEN THE ROUGH: an exhibition of installation art," which is free and open to the public, will be at 208C and 210 N. 6th St.
 The opening reception is 6-9 p.m. on Nov. 22 and the exhibit hours are noon to 5 p.m. on Nov. 23 and 24. This exhibition was created for Art and Design's "Graduate Installation and Critique," a seminar for all graduate students in the studio arts incorporating the process of installation art to facilitate the exchange of ideas and professional criticism.
 The class is taught by Charles A. Gick, a professor in the Patti and Rusty Rueff School of Visual and Performing Arts. All works are site-specific installations, designed and installed onsite as part of the course, and each artist will use different materials to transform his or her space to reflect a theme or argument.
 Some examples of this installation art include the use of 3-D soft sculpture to reinvent a geometric space by installing brightly colored, soft, organic forms, and the use of portraiture and geographical snapshots of local artisans from other countries to show how they preserved their creative practice through fashion.
 These works and others will be created by two guests artists, nine graduate students and one undergraduate student. The guests artists are Liz Erlewine, gallery coordinator for Patti and Rusty Rueff Galleries, and Lisa Wicka, a limited-term lecturer in art and design.
 The graduate student artists are Alejandra Carrillo-Munoz, Jong-un Choi, Oren Darling, Fahinaz Ferdous, Lindsay McCormick, Sagan Newham, Caroline Owen, Juan Carlos Rodriguez and Boyd Smith.
 Bryant Girsch is the undergraduate student participating in the class. The Department of Art and Design is part of the Patti and Rusty Rueff School of Visual and Performing Arts in the 
College of Liberal Arts. Liz Erlewine, eerlewin@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q2/nuclear-weapon-simulations-show-performance-in-molecular-detail.html
<Content> Nuclear weapon simulations show performance in molecular detail
 Employees at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory work on a high-performance computer. Purdue researchers have collaborated with the national laboratory, using a similar high-performance computer to improve simulations that show a nuclear weapon's performance in precise molecular detail.
 (Photo courtesy of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory)Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – U.S. researchers are perfecting simulations that show a nuclear weapon's performance in precise molecular detail, tools that are becoming critical for national defense because international treaties forbid the detonation of nuclear test weapons.
 The simulations must be operated on supercomputers containing thousands of processors, but doing so has posed reliability and accuracy problems, said 
Saurabh Bagchi, an associate professor in Purdue University's School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Now researchers at Purdue and high-performance computing experts at the National Nuclear Security Administration's (NNSA) Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory have solved several problems hindering the use of the ultra-precise simulations.
 NNSA is the quasi-independent agency within the U.S. Department of Energy that oversees the nation's nuclear security activities.
 The simulations, which are needed to more efficiently certify nuclear weapons, may require 100,000 machines, a level of complexity that is essential to accurately show molecular-scale reactions taking place over milliseconds, or thousandths of a second.
 The same types of simulations also could be used in areas such as climate modeling and studying the dynamic changes in a protein's shape.
 Such highly complex jobs must be split into many processes that execute in parallel on separate machines in large computer clusters, Bagchi said.
 "Due to natural faults in the execution environment there is a high likelihood that some processing element will have an error during the application's execution, resulting in corrupted memory or failed communication between machines," Bagchi said.
 "There are bottlenecks in terms of communication and computation." These errors are compounded as long as the simulation continues to run before the glitch is detected and may cause simulations to stall or crash altogether.
 "We are particularly concerned with errors that corrupt data silently, possibly generating incorrect results with no indication that the error has occurred," said Bronis R.
 de Supinski, co-leader of the ASC Application Development Environment Performance Team at Lawrence Livermore. "Errors that significantly reduce system performance are also a major concern since the systems on which the simulations run are very expensive.
" Advanced Simulation and Computing is the computational arm of NNSA's Stockpile Stewardship Program, which ensures the safety, security and reliability of the nation's nuclear deterrent without underground testing.
 New findings will be detailed in a paper to be presented during the Annual IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks from June 25-28 in Boston.
 Recent research findings were detailed in two papers last year, one presented during the IEEE Supercomputing Conference and the other during the International Symposium on High-Performance Parallel and Distributed Computing.
 "You want the system to automatically pinpoint when and in what machine the error took place and also the part of the code that was involved," Bagchi said.
 "Then, a developer can come in, look at it and fix the problem." "Streaming data to a central server works fine for a hundred machines, but it can't keep up when you are streaming data from a thousand machines," said Purdue doctoral student Ignacio Laguna, who worked with Lawrence Livermore computer scientists.
 "We've eliminated this central brain, so we no longer have that bottleneck." Each machine in the supercomputer cluster contains several cores, or processors, and each core might run one "process" during simulations.
 The researchers created an automated method for "clustering," or grouping the large number of processes into a smaller number of "equivalence classes" with similar traits.
 Grouping the processes into equivalence classes makes it possible to quickly detect and pinpoint problems. "The recent breakthrough was to be able to scale up the clustering so that it works with a large supercomputer," Bagchi said.
 Lawrence Livermore computer scientist Todd Gamblin came up with the scalable clustering approach. A lingering bottleneck in using the simulations is related to a procedure called checkpointing, or periodically storing data to prevent its loss in case a machine or application crashes.
 The information is saved in a file called a checkpoint and stored in a parallel system distant from the machines on which the application runs.
 "The problem is that when you scale up to 10,000 machines, this parallel file system bogs down," Bagchi said. "It's about 10 times too much activity for the system to handle, and this mismatch will just become worse because we are continuing to create faster and faster computers.
" Doctoral student Tanzima Zerin and Rudolf Eigenmann, a professor of electrical and computer engineering, along with Bagchi, led work to develop a method for compressing the checkpoints, similar to the compression of data for images.
 "We're beginning to solve the checkpointing problem," Bagchi said. "It's not completely solved, but we are getting there." The checkpointing bottleneck must be solved in order for researchers to create supercomputers capable of "exascale computing," or 1,000 quadrillion operations per second.
 The research has been funded by Lawrence Livermore and the National Science Foundation. The work also involves Lawrence Livermore scientists Greg Bronevetsky, Dong H.
 Ahn, Martin Schulz and IBM Austin researcher Mootaz Elnozahy. Laguna was awarded a George Michael Memorial High Performance Computing Fellowship during the Supercomputing 2011 Conference in recognition of his work on the project.
 The Supercomputing Conference paper can be accessed online at IEEExplore or ACM Digital Library or from the research group's home page at 
https://engineering.purdue.edu/dcsl Purdue researchers did not work with the actual classified nuclear weapons software code, but instead used generic benchmarks, a set of programs designed to help evaluate the performance of parallel supercomputers.
 Donald B. Johnston, senior editor, press officer, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, 925-423-4902, johnston19@llnl.gov Enterprise and high-performance computing systems are growing extremely large and complex, employing many processors and diverse software/hardware stacks [1].
 As these machines grow in scale, faults become more frequent and system complexity makes it difficult to detect and diagnose them.
 The difficulty is particularly large for faults that degrade system performance or cause erratic behavior but do not cause outright crashes.
 The cost of these errors is high since they significantly reduce system productivity, both initially and by time required to resolve them.
 Current system management techniques [2], [3] do not work well since they require manual examination of system behavior and do not identify root causes.
 When a fault is manifested, system administrators need timely notification about the type of fault, the time period in which it occurred and the processor on which it originated.
 Statistical modeling approaches can accurately characterize normal and abnormal system behavior [4]. However, the complex effects of system faults are less amenable to these techniques.
 This paper demonstrates that the complexity of system faults makes traditional classification and clustering algorithms inadequate for characterizing them.
 We design novel techniques that combine classification algorithms with information on the abnormality of application behavior to improve detection and characterization accuracy significantly.
 Our experiments demonstrate that our techniques can detect and characterize faults with 85% accuracy, compared to just 12% accuracy for direct applications of traditional techniques.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/nutrabiotix-llc-receives-2.5-million-federal-grant-to-develop-purdue-designed-fiber.html
<Content> Nutrabiotix LLC receives $2.5 million federal grant to develop Purdue-designed fiber
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind., and CHICAGO - A $2.5 million federal grant will be used to further advance a patent-pending fiber designed to help people affected by irritable bowel syndrome.
 The fiber was developed at Purdue University's College of Agriculture and Rush University Medical Center. Nutrabiotix LLC, based in the Purdue Research Park, is commercializing patent-pending designer fiber created by Bruce Hamaker, the Roy L.
 Whistler Chair in Carbohydrate Science in Purdue's Department of Food Science, and Dr. Ali Keshavarzian, the Josephine M. Dyrenfort Chairperson in Gastroenterology at Rush University Medical Center, where the fiber has undergone two human clinical trials.
 Nutrabiotix has received a two-year SBIR Phase II grant worth $2.5 million from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, which is part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the U.S.
 Department of Health and Human Services. The funding began July 1 and will conclude June 30, 2015. Hamaker said the initial goal of the research that created the fiber was to address the problem of dietary fiber intolerance.
 "Bowel intolerance is mainly caused by rapid fermentation, which occurs when bacteria extract energy from fiber," he said. "Nearly everyone is affected by intolerance, depending on the amount of fiber they digest and how rapidly it ferments.
" "The fiber is a targeted, controlled-release prebiotoic; it travels through the large intestine, including the descending colon where colon cancer, diverticulitis and ulcerative colitis commonly occur," he said.
 "The fiber can be designed to target different locations. This enables the bacteria in the large intestine to receive important nutrients from the fiber, which promotes overall health.
" Mark D. Cisneros, Nutrabiotix president and CEO, said the grant will benefit Nutrabiotix and the general public. "The award from this highly competitive grant process gives us a vote of confidence in our approach and certainly allows us to accelerate our strategy of launching products based on clinical evidence," he said.
 "The greater community benefits as well with the creation of five new jobs and the further pursuit of our vision to improve and sustain global health with innovative dietary products.
" Nutrabiotix innovates market-ready, targeted function fiber products that promote gastrointestinal health, and aim to prevent and to treat intestinal and systemic diseases by impacting local and systemic metabolism and immunoinflammatory processes.
 Rush is a not-for-profit academic medical center comprising Rush University Medical Center, Rush University, Rush Oak Park Hospital and Rush Health.
 The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation program in the country. The park's four Indiana sites are in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 The nearly 200 companies located in the park network employ about 4,000 people. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/nutrabiotix-llc-receives-2.5-million-federal-grant-to-develop-purdue-designed-fiber.html
<Content> Nutrabiotix LLC receives $2.5 million federal grant to develop Purdue-designed fiber
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind., and CHICAGO - A $2.5 million federal grant will be used to further advance a patent-pending fiber designed to help people affected by irritable bowel syndrome.
 The fiber was developed at Purdue University's College of Agriculture and Rush University Medical Center. Nutrabiotix LLC, based in the Purdue Research Park, is commercializing patent-pending designer fiber created by Bruce Hamaker, the Roy L.
 Whistler Chair in Carbohydrate Science in Purdue's Department of Food Science, and Dr. Ali Keshavarzian, the Josephine M. Dyrenfort Chairperson in Gastroenterology at Rush University Medical Center, where the fiber has undergone two human clinical trials.
 Nutrabiotix has received a two-year SBIR Phase II grant worth $2.5 million from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, which is part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the U.S.
 Department of Health and Human Services. The funding began July 1 and will conclude June 30, 2015. Hamaker said the initial goal of the research that created the fiber was to address the problem of dietary fiber intolerance.
 "Bowel intolerance is mainly caused by rapid fermentation, which occurs when bacteria extract energy from fiber," he said. "Nearly everyone is affected by intolerance, depending on the amount of fiber they digest and how rapidly it ferments.
" "The fiber is a targeted, controlled-release prebiotoic; it travels through the large intestine, including the descending colon where colon cancer, diverticulitis and ulcerative colitis commonly occur," he said.
 "The fiber can be designed to target different locations. This enables the bacteria in the large intestine to receive important nutrients from the fiber, which promotes overall health.
" Mark D. Cisneros, Nutrabiotix president and CEO, said the grant will benefit Nutrabiotix and the general public. "The award from this highly competitive grant process gives us a vote of confidence in our approach and certainly allows us to accelerate our strategy of launching products based on clinical evidence," he said.
 "The greater community benefits as well with the creation of five new jobs and the further pursuit of our vision to improve and sustain global health with innovative dietary products.
" Nutrabiotix innovates market-ready, targeted function fiber products that promote gastrointestinal health, and aim to prevent and to treat intestinal and systemic diseases by impacting local and systemic metabolism and immunoinflammatory processes.
 Rush is a not-for-profit academic medical center comprising Rush University Medical Center, Rush University, Rush Oak Park Hospital and Rush Health.
 The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation program in the country. The park's four Indiana sites are in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 The nearly 200 companies located in the park network employ about 4,000 people. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/nutrabiotix-llc-receives-2.5-million-federal-grant-to-develop-purdue-designed-fiber.html
<Content> Nutrabiotix LLC receives $2.5 million federal grant to develop Purdue-designed fiber
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind., and CHICAGO - A $2.5 million federal grant will be used to further advance a patent-pending fiber designed to help people affected by irritable bowel syndrome.
 The fiber was developed at Purdue University's College of Agriculture and Rush University Medical Center. Nutrabiotix LLC, based in the Purdue Research Park, is commercializing patent-pending designer fiber created by Bruce Hamaker, the Roy L.
 Whistler Chair in Carbohydrate Science in Purdue's Department of Food Science, and Dr. Ali Keshavarzian, the Josephine M. Dyrenfort Chairperson in Gastroenterology at Rush University Medical Center, where the fiber has undergone two human clinical trials.
 Nutrabiotix has received a two-year SBIR Phase II grant worth $2.5 million from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, which is part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the U.S.
 Department of Health and Human Services. The funding began July 1 and will conclude June 30, 2015. Hamaker said the initial goal of the research that created the fiber was to address the problem of dietary fiber intolerance.
 "Bowel intolerance is mainly caused by rapid fermentation, which occurs when bacteria extract energy from fiber," he said. "Nearly everyone is affected by intolerance, depending on the amount of fiber they digest and how rapidly it ferments.
" "The fiber is a targeted, controlled-release prebiotoic; it travels through the large intestine, including the descending colon where colon cancer, diverticulitis and ulcerative colitis commonly occur," he said.
 "The fiber can be designed to target different locations. This enables the bacteria in the large intestine to receive important nutrients from the fiber, which promotes overall health.
" Mark D. Cisneros, Nutrabiotix president and CEO, said the grant will benefit Nutrabiotix and the general public. "The award from this highly competitive grant process gives us a vote of confidence in our approach and certainly allows us to accelerate our strategy of launching products based on clinical evidence," he said.
 "The greater community benefits as well with the creation of five new jobs and the further pursuit of our vision to improve and sustain global health with innovative dietary products.
" Nutrabiotix innovates market-ready, targeted function fiber products that promote gastrointestinal health, and aim to prevent and to treat intestinal and systemic diseases by impacting local and systemic metabolism and immunoinflammatory processes.
 Rush is a not-for-profit academic medical center comprising Rush University Medical Center, Rush University, Rush Oak Park Hospital and Rush Health.
 The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation program in the country. The park's four Indiana sites are in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 The nearly 200 companies located in the park network employ about 4,000 people. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/nutrition-program-earns-purdue-extension-hancook-award.html
<Content> Nutrition program earns Purdue Extension Hancook Award
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A program that inspires child care providers to promote healthy meals and snacks, nutrition education and role modeling for children throughout Indiana has received the Purdue Cooperative Extension Specialists Association's top award.
 The Hancook Award, recognizing Extension educators and specialists who jointly develop programs focusing on families, was presented Thursday (Nov.
 7) during a luncheon at the annual Purdue Extension Professional Development Conference. The RECIPE for Growing Healthy Children program, an effort between Purdue Extension and the Indiana Department of Education, implements training for child care food service staff on planning and preparing meals and snacks to comply with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans.
 The acronym of RECIPE stands for the program's six workshop sections: role models for children; an environment that encourages healthy behaviors; nutritious meals and snacks; involving children in food and fun; partnering with parents; and enjoying eating together.
 Team members are: Lisa Graves, College of Health and Human Sciences Extension specialist; Barbara Mayfield, HHS continuing lecturer; and HHS educators Jan Dougan of Dubois County, Annette Lawler of Harrison County, Inger Friend of Steuben County, Teresa Witkoske of Wabash County and Christina Ferroli of Marion County.
 "In just a few short years this program has shown improvement in the mealtime environment of children participating in child care programs," Angela Abbott, program leader and assistant director of Purdue Extension in HHS, wrote in a letter supporting the nomination of the team for the award.
 "This program is an important part of Purdue Extension's focus to deliver comprehensive, community-based health and nutrition programs.
" The award is named in honor of Ann Hancook, a Purdue Extension program leader who died in 1993. Sponsors are the Indiana Extension Educators Association, Purdue University Cooperative Extension Specialists Association and the Alpha Lambda chapter of Epsilon Sigma Phi, the Extension honor society.
 * Team Award: To MyPlate and Beyond. Members of the team are: Connie Weaver, Angie Abbott, Melissa Maulding, Lisa Graves and Donna Vandergraff of the College of Health and Human Sciences, and Gretchen Bertolet, Rob Snorek, Rebecca Stephens, Jason Thorne, Jeff Rollins, Kevin Smith, Mike Weber and Danica Kirkpatrick of the College of Agriculture.
 * Mid-Career Award: Jane Frankenberger of the Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering. Among other awards announced at the event, Epsilon Sigma Phi presented its Distinguished Service Awards Richard Beckort of Jackson County and Annetta Jones of Porter County, and its Continued Excellence Award to Roger Sherer of Wells County.
 Note to journalists: Photos of the award recipients will be available at http://www.ag.purdue.edu/extension/awards/. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/nutrition-science-professor-named-to-2015-dietary-guidelines-advisory-committee.html
<Content> Nutrition science professor named to 2015 Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Wayne Campbell, a Purdue University professor of nutrition science and expert on dietary protein and human health, has been selected to serve on the U.S.
 government committee that will review and give advice on setting the nation's dietary recommendations, the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2015.
 Campbell is one of 15 nationally recognized experts selected by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and U.S. Department of Agriculture to serve on the 2015 Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee.
 Every five years a committee reviews the latest in nutrition and medical research to provide the scientific basis for these national recommendations.
 These guidelines provide the foundation for national nutrition programs, standards and education. Campbell's expertise and research focuses on understanding how protein nutrition and exercise influence adult health as people age.
 His lab evaluates the effects of protein, carbohydrate and energy intakes and exercise training on appetite, eating behavior, body composition, and muscle strength and function.
 Topics of interest include determining how much protein old and elderly people should consume to meet their metabolic needs and maximize their health; studying the effects of protein quantity and food source on appetite and eating behavior; and evaluating the importance of eating protein at breakfast to promote fullness while adults are dieting.
 He also is studying the effects of food form, such as consuming calories as solid foods versus beverages, portion size and dietary patterning on appetite and weight control especially in the aging population.
 He is director of the Indiana Clinical Research Center and Bionutrition Services Core at Purdue. The center is a component of the NIH-supported Indiana Clinical and Translational Science Institute at the Indiana University of School of Medicine.
 More information about the Dietary Guidelines and the work of this committee is available at http://www.DietaryGuidelines.gov </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/orcid-grant-enables-purdue-libraries-to-connect-scientists-to-their-research.html
<Content> ORCID grant enables Purdue Libraries to connect scientists to their research
 WEST LAFAYETTE, IN — Purdue University Libraries is helping connect scientists to their research by participating in ORCID, a nonprofit organization that registers researchers' identities and links them across different systems that manage scholarly information.
 The connection associates researchers with their publications, grants and patents. ORCID also helps researchers, especially those with common names, to get appropriate credit for use of their work.
 For example, ORCID can enable people to search for the published work of a specific individual named "John Smith" without the ambiguity of different spellings or mixing up works from other authors who have the same name.
 ORCID is working with major research institutions, funding agencies, publishers, and professional societies to establish and link identities across different systems and publications.
 It is free for researchers to register for an ORCID identifier and associate it with their publications, grants, and patents. Researchers own their identifiers, which they keep for their entire academic career as they move from one institution to another.
 With funding from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, Purdue Libraries will encourage adoption of ORCID by integrating it into HUBzero, an open source software platform that was developed at Purdue for creating dynamic websites that support scientific research and educational activities.
 "Integrating ORCID with HUBzero will enable hundreds of thousands of hub users to register their identifiers and make it easier for people to find their scholarly output", said Michael Witt, an associate professor of library science, who is leading the effort at Purdue.
 ORCID functionality will be piloted and tested on three hubs: the Purdue University Research Repository (PURR), nanoHUB.org, and HABRI Central - and then become available to more than 50 other hubs in September 2014.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/outstanding-service-recognized-by-purdue-extension.html
<Content> Outstanding service recognized by Purdue Extension
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue Extension honored an educator, specialist and others Thursday (Nov. 7) for the exceptional service they have provided to their profession, the university and the people of Indiana.
 Special awards presented during the Extension's annual Professional Development Conference luncheon and the honorees were: * Outstanding Extension Specialist: Bruce Bordelon of Purdue University's Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture.
 Bordelon is known particularly for his expertise on cultivar adaptation and small fruit crop management in the Midwest and eastern U.S.
 Bordelon is a leader in the creation of regional peer-reviewed production manuals for commercial small fruit growers. He has made presentations on a variety of topics at more than 150 conferences and workshops during the past 22 years and has collaborated on many others, including the Purdue Grape and Wine Workshops, Indiana Wine Grape Symposium, the Indiana Horticultural Congress and the Heartland Grape and Wine Symposium.
 He has also led international Extension study courses for the wine grape industry to Italy, Chile and Argentina. Bordelon's research has benefited the wine industry in Indiana and the region; essentially all new plantings of grapes are of superior cultivars identified by his research.
 His research on Traminette has made it the most widely grown cultivar in the region. * Paul B. Crooks Award: Roy Ballard, Extension educator in Hancock County.
 The award is presented annually to an Extension educator with at least 10 years of experience and who has made a significant impact in their assigned areas, displayed excellence in teamwork and collaboration, and developed exceptional Extension programming.
 Ballard has coordinated webinars to engage beginning and experienced farmers looking to expand their markets and learn more about farming.
 He also is a leader in the establishment of the Farm Sustainability Tours in 2007 and 2008 for operators of small and organic farms.
 He developed agritourism sessions offered as part of the Indiana Horticultural Congress. Ballard took a lead role in establishment of the Hancock Harvest Council and the Hoosier Harvest Market, both of which have provided new marketing opportunities to small farmers and increased central Indiana residents' access to local foods.
 As the Indiana coordinator of U.S. Department of Agriculture's Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education, Ballard provides funds for educator training and support for innovative growers throughout the state.
 He also is director of Hancock County Soil Waste Management District, coordinating recycling efforts in the county and providing programming such as pesticide applicator recertification program and the Master Gardener training programs.
 * Purdue Extension Director's Award: Former Purdue Extension Directors Dave Petritz and Hank Wadsworth, and Karen Plaut, senior associate dean for research and faculty affairs;
 Petritz served as Purdue Extension director from 1999 to 2007, when he retired. He gave 35 years of service to Purdue, including as associate vice provost for engagement.
 As Extension director, Petritz had the role of helping the university become more engaged in trying to find solutions to the problems facing Indiana.
 Among his accomplishments, Petritz worked on several programs to help farm families deal with difficult financial times and coordinated the 1988 drought response effort.
 Wadsworth was Purdue Extension director from 1983 to 1999, during which time he also served as an Indiana State Fair director. He previously worked in the Purdue Department of Agricultural Economics as an Extension specialist in farm management and community development from 1962 to 1973.
 As chairman of Food Finders Food Bank in Lafayette, Ind., Wadsworth oversees a food bank that last year distributed more than 2.5 million pounds of food to 180 food pantries in 16 north-central Indiana counties.
 Jason Henderson, who became director of Purdue Extension this year, said he was proud to follow in the footsteps of Petritz and Wadsworth.
 Plaut provides leadership of research programs in agriculture, food and natural resources, including fiscal management, and regulatory functions assigned by the state Legislature.
 Among her responsibilities, she coordinates agricultural research with the College of Health and Human Sciences and College of Veterinary Medicine and assures linkage with other campus research communities and Extension.
 "As a provider of research-based educational programming, partnerships between research and Extension are essential," Henderson said.
 "The support of Karen Plaut in building these relationships are core to great Extension programming that makes a difference in communities in Indiana and across the nation.
 " Note to journalists: Photos of the award recipients will be available at http://www.ag.purdue.edu/extension/awards/. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/pekny-selected-as-interim-director-designate-for-discovery-parks-burton-d.-morgan-center-for-entrepreneurship.html
<Content> Pekny selected as interim director designate for Discovery Park's Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship
 Pekny selected as interim director designate for Discovery Park's Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - Purdue University chemical engineering professor Joseph Pekny has been appointed interim director designate of the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship
, working with current director Richard Cosier until he returns to the Krannert School of Management full time in August, where their collaborations will continue.
 Pekny, who has held several leadership roles in Discovery Park since the interdisciplinary research complex was launched a decade ago, will work alongside Cosier this summer in managing the Burton D.
 Morgan Center's entrepreneurship activities across campus. Pekny's appointment is effective immediately, and he will become the center's full-time interim director on Aug.
 13. A search for a permanent director will be launched this fall. "Joe Pekny is not only a world-class educator, but also a world-class entrepreneur.
 His involvement in the Burton D. Morgan Center in collaboration with Rick Cosier will increase the entrepreneurial spirit and activities in this important center," said Dan Hasler, president and chief entrepreneurial officer at the 
Purdue Research Foundation. "The work of Rick and Joe, along with all our other programs to foster and implement entrepreneurship, will make the center a place where those who embrace innovation can come together and do more than innovate - they will change lives through the commercialization of innovative ideas.
 The center will be Purdue's epicenter for entrepreneurial training and startup support." Pekny, who joined Purdue's faculty in 1990, will serve as interim director designate until Aug.
 13. He is founder of Advanced Process Combinatorics Inc., a Purdue Research Park-based company that was spun off from his research in 1994.
 In addition, he served as director of the e-Enterprise Center from 2001-09, was a founding director of Discovery Park, and was instrumental in the launch of the Regenstrief Center for Healthcare Engineering in Discovery Park.
 He also was interim head of School of Industrial Engineering from 2008-10. "Joe Pekny wears many hats at Purdue. He is often described by colleagues as enthusiastic, positive and inclusive," said Alan Rebar, executive director of Discovery Park.
 "In his 23 years at Purdue, he has shown through his work exactly what Purdue is all about." Pekny received the highest honor given to Purdue faculty members when then-President Martin C.
 Jischke presented him with the One Brick Higher Award in 2007 for his work in entrepreneurship and academic endeavors. "Entrepreneurship happens every day on campus through our innovative faculty and staff and our best and brightest students," Pekny said.
 "By building on the momentum we have sparked through Discovery Park, the Burton D. Morgan Center and our incredible discipline strengths, we are building on Purdue's legacy of success in creating impact and value for society.
 "We aim to advance an ecosystem that supports this creative culture across Purdue to the benefit of Indiana and beyond." Although Cosier, the Avrum and Joyce Gray Director of the Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship and Purdue's Leeds Professor of Management, will return to Krannert this fall, he will remain involved in campus entrepreneurship activities.
 "Rick's continued role in teaching entrepreneurship in the Krannert School of Management is an important cornerstone in our overall innovation and commercialization goals," Hasler said.
 Cosier also will join professionals from the Office of Technology Commercialization in the Purdue Research Foundation to teach Krannert's Student Managed Venture Fund course, which provides students with the opportunity to perform due diligence on real Purdue-related startups for possible funding up to $150,000 for companies they create.
 "Joe is a great choice to lead the entrepreneurship endeavors at the Burton D. Morgan Center and will do a fine job," Cosier said.
 "I look forward to working with him." Cosier served as Krannert dean from 1999-2010 before being named the Avrum and Joyce Gray Director of the Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship in March 2010. He also was founding director of the Burton D. Morgan Center when it was launched in 2004.
 The Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, through its sponsored initiatives and partnerships - including the Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Technology Realization Program, Entrepreneurial Leadership Academy and business plan competitions - aims to stimulate entrepreneurship at Purdue and serves as a state, regional and national resource.
 Opened in 2004, the 31,000-square-foot, two-story Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship was the first building completed in Discovery Park, the university's $750 million interdisciplinary research complex for large-scale projects.
 The center is housed in a $7 million facility funded through The Burton D. Morgan Foundation, which was established by the late Burton D.
 Morgan, a 1938 Purdue graduate in mechanical engineering who started 50 businesses. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/perfinity,-thermo-fisher-scientific-sign-co-marketing-agreement-for-automated-online-biopharmaceutical-analysis-system.html
<Content> Perfinity, Thermo Fisher Scientific sign co-marketing agreement for automated online biopharmaceutical analysis system
 Perfinity, Thermo Fisher Scientific sign co-marketing agreement for automated online biopharmaceutical analysis system WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - Perfinity Biosciences Inc. announces the signing of an agreement with Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., the world leader in serving science, to co-market an automated protein sample preparation and analysis system.
 This solution combines Perfinity's automated sample preparation platform with Thermo Fisher Scientific's liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry instrumentation.
 There are applications in biopharmaceutical process monitoring, protein drug development and biomarker discovery. "Pharmaceutical manufacturers cannot wait for 24 hours to monitor the purity of each batch of protein-based product," said Robert Ellis, Perfinity Biosciences CEO.
 "When proteins oxidize, things can go bad quickly, and this is very costly. We developed our automated sample preparation platform to generate results quickly enough to let customers protect the value of each batch before it's too late.
 Now, with the Thermo Scientific LC and MS instruments, we offer a complete system from automated sample preparation through data reporting.
" "A major goal at Thermo Fisher is to create efficiency and productivity throughout the biopharmaceutical value chain, and Perfinity's approach to in-process analysis meshes nicely with these plans," said Patrick Bennett, Thermo Fisher director of marketing, pharmaceutical industry.
 Perfinity's sample preparation platform is an automated system that reduces the time required for the trypsin digestion step prior to mass spec analysis from approximately 18 hours using conventional techniques to less than two minutes.
 The proprietary three-column system is based on the company's trypsin columns, and also includes an automated workstation and software.
 Thermo Fisher is providing Thermo Scientific UltiMate 3000 UHPLC systems and a choice of Orbitrap-based hybrid or triple quadrupole mass spectrometers depending on customers' specific requirements.
 Perfinity Biosciences is a leader in the development, manufacture and supply of products that automate protein separations and mass spec sample preparation.
 Perfinity Biosciences is located in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette. The Purdue Research Park is the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The Purdue Research Park has four sites in the State of Indiana located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Northwest Indiana and Southeast Indiana.
 The nearly 240 companies located in the park network employ about 4,200 people who earn an average annual wage of $63,000. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/pet-insurance-becomes-available-through-purdue-on-monday.html
<Content> Pet insurance becomes available through Purdue on Monday
 Purdue pet owners may be interested in a new voluntary benefit coming Monday (Aug. 26). Beginning that day, faculty and staff will be able to enroll for coverage through Veterinary Pet Insurance (VPI).
 "Employees have expressed interest in pet insurance for a number of years," says Luis E. Lewin, vice president for human resources.
 "We're pleased to add this insurance to our lineup of voluntary benefits." Unlike other coverage offered through Purdue's voluntary benefits program, pet insurance will be available also to Purdue students, retirees and alumni.
 VPI plans cover dogs, cats, birds and exotic pets for health problems and conditions related to accidents, illnesses and injuries.
 The company offers a variety of plan options, plus discounts when enrolling more than one pet. "I'm very pleased to see Purdue add this offering," says Willie Reed, dean of Purdue's College of Veterinary Medicine.
 "We know from resources like our own Center for the Human-Animal Bond that societal norms have changed to the point that more and more people view pets as members of the family.
 That perspective makes pet health care a necessity that must be provided for in family budgets, and pet health insurance is one of the tools available to help families plan for potential future health care costs.
" VPI coverage lets pet owners use the veterinarian of their choice, including Purdue Veterinary Medicine's community practice and emergency care.
 "The Purdue University College of Veterinary Medicine is proud to be the home of the Purdue Small Animal Hospital, which is a highly regarded referral facility capable of providing everything from routine wellness care to the most sophisticated veterinary medical specialties, including cardiology, oncology (cancer treatment), orthopedic surgery and 24/7 emergency services," Reed says.
 "The Small Animal Hospital welcomes patients with VPI coverage, and all Purdue employees are eligible for a discount of 10 percent on selected services, regardless of whether they have a VPI policy.
" For more information on pet insurance and a price quote, faculty and staff may go to www.purdue.edu/benefits, choose Voluntary Benefits from the "Information" box on the left side of the page and then follow the Pet Insurance link.
 Quotes are also available by calling 877-PETS-VPI (877-738-7874). Cost depends on the type of pet, the breed and the pet's age. VPI will bill participating faculty and staff directly for any insurance they choose.
</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/pharmaceutical,-biotech-services-company-becomes-purdue-research-park-tenant.html
<Content> Pharmaceutical, biotech services company becomes Purdue Research Park tenant
 INDIANAPOLIS - Scientists at pharmaceutical or biotech firms who are searching for a contract service provider during the drug development process could benefit from a growing Indianapolis-based company that has become a tenant in the Purdue Research Park.
 VxP Pharma Inc. offers a wide range of contract drug development and manufacturing services. Raymond E. Peck founded it as a wholly owned subsidiary of CRO Solutions Inc.
, its parent company. VxP Pharma offers comprehensive services in early pharmaceutical and biotech product development. "Our service areas include discovery chemistry and research, chemical development, preclinical services, preformulation and solid state chemistry, analytical and bioanalytical support, formulation development and clinical trial materials manufacturing, and reagent assay development services," he said.
 "Its location near the Indianapolis International Airport makes it an easy stopover for prospects visiting the city," he said. "Within two weeks of opening, we had two site visits by major pharmaceutical companies, and several more are on the calendar.
" "Purdue has an excellent reputation in the pharmaceutical industry, especially in research and development," he said. "My colleagues and I also can't overlook the talent pool of potential new employees as we expand.
 We have added four new employees in the past six months, and we intend to continue hiring as we move forward." VxP Pharma offers the convenience of a central "One Stop Shop" CRO, combined with the advantages of working with a specialist "Niche CRO.
" We're able to deliver this unique capability because each facility is independently owned and operated, and specializes in only one area of development.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The parks are home to about 200 companies that employ about 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 Lisa Fay, 317-771-8099, lisa.fay@vxppharma.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/plant-pathologist-growers-should-be-aware-of-new-soybean-virus.html
<Content> Plant pathologist: Growers should be aware of new soybean virus
 Foliar symptoms of soybean vein necrosis virus. (Purdue Entomology photo/John Obermeyer) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Soybean vein necrosis virus has been confirmed in Indiana for the second consecutive year as plant pathologists continue to study the relatively new disease to determine how it might affect the plants and their yields.
 The viral disease is a Tospovirus and was first discovered in Tennessee soybean fields in 2008. Soybean vein necrosis virus, or SVNV, has now been detected in 16 states across the southern and north-central regions of the United States.
 "This is a new disease, so we're learning about what potential impact it might have on yield," said Kiersten Wise, Purdue Extension plant pathologist.
 "It's important for growers to be aware of this disease because it can look like many other common diseases that we see in soybean fields.
" Common diseases such as brown spot, downy mildew and sudden death syndrome can all be mistaken for SVNV, so Wise said it's important for growers to know the difference.
 "We want growers to be aware of what they have in their fields, and also to prevent any unwarranted management if they're trying to manage a different disease," she said.
 Symptoms of SVNV begin with vein clearing followed by chlorosis, appearing as light green to yellow blotchy patches near the main vein of the leaf.
 Leaves might appear scorched, and affected leaf tissue might die during late stages of infection. Tiny, winged insects called thrips transmit the virus from plant to plant.
 Adult thrips, about one-sixteenth of an inch long, have yellow bodies, dark thoraxes and two black crossbands on their forewings.
 They feed on plant juices primarily on the undersides of leaves and pollen when flowers are present. Thrips are in soybean fields every year, and damage from the insects alone is usually insignificant.
 Because SVNV is so new to Indiana soybean farmers, Wise said she and her colleagues are studying and monitoring the disease. "We're in the record-keeping phase," Wise said.
 "The incidence of SVNV in soybean fields and the economic impact, if any, on soybean production has not been determined in Indiana.
" Since SVNV is spread by thrips, she said, it's critical to monitor insect vector populations in the region and state to anticipate future epidemics.
 Growers should also pay attention to where they have seen the disease, what soybean varieties it affected, and what management practices were used in the affected fields.
 Wise said that a group of Midwestern researchers will undertake studies to understand the virus, how it's transmitted, and help determine if it can cause yield loss.
 The North Central Soybean Research Program has provided funds to develop Extension documents to help growers understand the disease.
 These materials will be released this winter.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/plant-pathologist-several-corn-ear-rots-possible-this-year.html
<Content> Plant pathologist: Several corn ear rots possible this year
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Corn producers should be scouting fields to get a head start on managing any grain problems that could result from conditions favorable to several ear rots this year, a Purdue Extension plant pathologist says.
 Different fungi cause different ear rots, and environmental conditions at the silking stage or just after it influence which rot may be a problem.
 Ear rots can cause significant economic loss, especially if the fungi produce mycotoxins, which pose problems for both livestock and humans.
 "As harvest begins, it's important to identify fields that may have rots to ensure timely harvest and proper storage of moldy grain," Kiersten Wise said.
 "And proper identification of ear rots is key to managing affected grain." Wise said farmers should be examining corn for Aspergillus, Fusarium, Diplodia and Gibberella ear rots this year.
 Aspergillus ear rot is caused by the Aspergillus flavus fungus and is characterized by an olive green, dusty mold at the tip of the ear or scattered on kernels.
 Symptoms usually appear first in fields with dry soils, nutrient deficiencies or insect damage. It's also one of the most concerning ear rots because of its associated mycotoxin, aflatoxin.
 "Aflatoxin is a potent carcinogen and is regulated in feed and silage," Wise said. "It's particularly of concern to dairy producers because Food and Drug Administration regulations require aflatoxin residues in milk to be less than 0.5 parts per billion.
" To prevent carryover into milk, silage and other feed components shouldn't contain more than 20 parts per billion of aflatoxin.
 Fusarium ear rot, primarily caused by Fusarium verticilliodes fungus, often overlaps with Aspergillus since warmer temperatures favor infection.
 The mycotoxin fumonisin is associated with this ear rot. Infected ears might have white fungal growth on the cob or discolored kernels scattered throughout.
 "Fungal growth isn't always visible, but a white starburst pattern in kernels can sometimes be observed on infected ears," Wise said.
 A common Corn Belt disease is Diplodia ear rot, caused by the Stenocarpella maydis fungus. It survives in corn residue and infects plants about two weeks after pollination.
 Humidity and rain before and after pollination also help the disease develop. With Diplodia ear rot, white fungal growth on the cob often forms a mat of fungus across the ear.
 Other symptoms include brown or gray kernels and small black fungal structures called pycnidia that may form on the kernels or cob.
 The fungus is reported to produce the mycotoxin diplodiatoxin in South America and South Africa, but no toxic effects on livestock or humans have been reported in the U.S.
 Gibberella ear rot, caused by the Gibberella zeae fungus, infects plants during early silking and pollination. It favors cooler temperatures than the other ear rots, and produces a pink or reddish mold that can form a fungal mat similar to Diplodia.
 Gibeberella zeae produces the mycotoxin deoxynivalenol, also called vomitoxin. Wise said this mycotoxin can be extremely harmful to swine and is carefully regulated by the FDA.
 "If ear rots are observed in a field, affected areas should be harvested early and grain segregated to avoid contaminating non-infected grain with mycotoxins," she said.
 Mycotoxins are byproducts of the fungal infections, not living organisms. They cannot be killed or removed from the grain. But producers can remove small particles such as foreign material containing mycotoxins by screening or cleaning the grain or coring grain bins to help reduce the mycotoxin levels.
 The U.S. Department of Agriculture's Grain Inspection Handbook, available at http://www.gipsa.usda.gov/Publications/pub_fgis.html
, has additional information on mycotoxins and handling of infected grain. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/poetry-reading-with-rodney-jones.html
<Content> Poetry reading with Rodney Jones
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The Purdue University Literary Reading Series presents a reading with poet Rodney Jones at 7:30 p.m. on Nov.
 6 at the Krannert Auditorium, Room 140. There will also be a question and answer session with Jones at 4:30 p.m. on Nov. 6 in Stewart Center, Room 320.
 Both events, sponsored by the College of Liberal Arts, the Department of English, the Creative Writing Program at Purdue, and the Thomas H.
 Scholl Fund, are free and open to the public. Jones was published in "The Oxford Book of Contemporary American Poetry," and in eight editions of "The Best American Poetry.
" His books include "Imaginary Logic;" "Salvation Blues: 100 Poems, 1985-2005," which won the Kingsley Tufts Prize and was shortlisted for the Griffin International Poetry Prize; "Elegy for the Southern Drawl," a Pulitzer finalist; "Things That Happen Once," a Los Angeles Times Book Award finalist; and "Transparent Gestures," winner of the National Book Critics Circle Award.
 Other awards include a Guggenheim Fellowship and the Jean Stein Award of the American Academy of Arts and Letters. A professor and distinguished scholar emeritus at Southern Illinois University Carbondale, he teaches in the MFA program at Warren Wilson College and is a member of the Fellowship of Southern Writers.
 Currently, he is the Mary Rogers Field Distinguished University Professor of Creative Writing at Depauw University. He was born in Alabama and educated at the University of Alabama and the University of North Carolina at Greensboro.
 Source: Rebecca McKanna, Visiting Writers Series coordinator, 319-400-9163, rmckanna@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/poor-stalk-health-means-corn-growers-need-to-prioritize-harvest.html
<Content> Poor stalk health means corn growers need to prioritize harvest
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Stalk health is poor in many Midwestern cornfields, meaning growers might need to take a "triage" approach when deciding which fields to harvest first, says Purdue Extension agronomist Bob Nielsen.
 Drought conditions during corn grain fill caused much of the affected corn crop to "cannibalize" itself, or pull carbohydrate reserves from the stalk to meet the needs of developing grain.
 The remobilization not only weakened stalks, but it also made them susceptible to stalk rots. Weak and rotten stalks are prone to lodging, which can make picking up grain with a combine difficult and ultimately lead to yield loss.
 "There are a lot of fields vulnerable to storms, so growers need to prioritize the health of their fields for harvest," Nielsen said.
 "When we start harvesting corn in earnest, we need to get the weakest fields out the earliest." While stalk breakage is easily seen when scouting fields, identifying stalks prone to lodging can be harder.
 The best way to identify compromised stalks is to pinch the lower stalk internodes to see if they collapse from the pressure. In some instances, Nielsen said pushing stalks out of the way when scouting is enough to make weak stalks fall over.
 "Fields and hybrids at high risk of stalk breakage should be harvested as early as possible to minimize the risk of significant mechanical harvest losses," he said.
 "Recognize that hybrids can vary greatly for late-season stalk quality, even if grown in the same field, due to inherent differences for late-season plant health or resistance against carbohydrate remobilization when stressed during grainfill.
" Stalk rots can get bad enough in some fields to spread to the ear shank, where the ear connects to the stalk, and on into the cob.
 Shank and cob rots can cause plants to start dropping their ears either spontaneously or when bumped by a combine head. Part of prioritizing the least healthy fields for earliest harvest also means growers might not want to wait until grain dries down to 18 percent - the desired moisture percentage for harvest.
 "This is not the year to let corn dry down further in the field," Nielsen said. "Get it out of the fields. Don't be greedy about waiting to get this corn down from 22 percent to 18 percent.
 You're rolling the dice on some of these fields. "If a storm comes along, we're not talking about leaning corn. We're talking about corn flat on its face.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/post-wins-highest-award-given-by-purdue-college-of-pharmacy.html
<Content> Post wins highest award given by Purdue College of Pharmacy
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Carol Post has won the Chaney Faculty Scholar Award, the highest research award given to faculty by Purdue University's College of Pharmacy.
 Post, a professor of medicinal chemistry and molecular pharmacology, received the award in recognition of her discoveries and work in understanding molecular structure and function in signaling proteins and viruses.
 She is well known for her use of both computer simulations and laboratory experiments to explore mechanisms of recognition and strategies for the design of new anti-viral drugs.
 Post's accomplishments include revealing a structural basis for the ability of WIN compounds to block the common cold virus. She led a team that found the flexibility of the WIN molecule allowed it to wiggle into the rhinovirus' outer shell and interfere with the infection process.
 She also had success in defining how chemical modification alters the shape of signaling proteins to control their function and interactions with other proteins, as well as the development of virtual screening tools to discover antiviral compounds.
 Colleagues credit Post with stimulating a re-thinking of the fundamentals of protein stability and enhancing the understanding of protein-protein interactions, enzymatic catalysis, conformational activation, signal transduction, antiviral mechanisms of action and viral capsid structure.
 The Chaney Faculty Scholar award recognizes outstanding research accomplishments and includes a plaque and $2,500. Post also will give the 2013 Chaney Faculty Scholar Research Seminar in the fall.
 An endowment created by JeanAnne D. and Jame B. Chaney supports the award and seminar. Sources: Eric Barker, associate dean for research for the College of Pharmacy, 765-494-9940, 
barkerel@purdue.edu Related news release: https://news.uns.purdue.edu/html4ever/2005/050523.Post.wiggle.html </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/prof-alcohol-impairment-goes-beyond-bac-number.html
<Content> Prof: Alcohol impairment goes beyond BAC number
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Drivers may think they have the green light to drive when their blood alcohol levels fall below the legal limit or the buzz wears off, but that's not the case, says a Purdue University expert.
 "It's more than just a number, and my advice is to not drink and drive at all because there really is no safe level," says Julia Chester
, an associate professor of psychological sciences who studies genetic differences and sensitivity to alcohol effects. "Impairment means the driver's reflexes and attention are limited, and someone who's been drinking could be impaired by withdrawal effects or fatigue even if the level of alcohol in their blood is metabolized to a lower level.
 This is especially something to consider for people who have been drinking all day in hot weather during a summer holiday weekend party.
 The buzz may be gone, but the aftereffects of consuming so much alcohol could still hinder your ability to drive a car." Chester says the blood alcohol content number provides a false sense of security because it's a snapshot of alcohol's effects.
 The current federally approved legal level, also known as BAC, is .08. Recently, the National Transportation Safety Board recommended that states lower the level to .05 in an effort to reduce traffic fatalities.
 "Each person and situation is different, and the question is to what degree will it impair you," Chester says. "Various individual considerations that relate to alcohol impairment include how much food someone has consumed, what medications have been taken and how rested is the driver.
 Genetics play a role, and an individuals' genetic and experiential history may make them more sensitive to alcohol's cognitive- and motor-impairing effects.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/prof-can-discuss-aspects-of-disaster-recovery-from-destructive-wildfires.html
<Content> Prof can discuss aspects of disaster recovery from destructive wildfires
 Aldrich can discuss how people behave and rely on each other after natural disasters, such as wildfires, and how they are likely to do so from the destructive and historic Black Forest wildfire in Colorado that has killed two people and destroyed hundreds of homes.
 He has found that people who have stronger individual friendships, community connections and civic involvement are more likely to have access to resources and information during and after a disaster.
 Aldrich is author of the book "Building Resilience: Social Capital in Post-Disaster Recovery," which includes a study of the recovery of various neighborhoods after Hurricane Katrina.
 Aldrich, who was a professor at Tulane University when Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans, credits a neighbor with encouraging his family to evacuate as the storm approached.
 He continues to work with colleagues at Louisiana State University to study disaster recovery after the hurricane, as well as after the April 2010 oil spill.
 Aldrich and his colleagues are observing high rates of depression, domestic violence and divorce as they interview area residents since the Gulf spill.
 CONTACT: Daniel Aldrich is on fellowship in Tokyo and is available by email, phone and Skype. The best way to reach him is daniel.aldrich@gmail.com
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/prof-diet-drinks-are-not-the-sweet-solution-to-fight-obesity,-health-problems.html
<Content> Prof: Diet drinks are not the sweet solution to fight obesity, health problems
 Research by Susan E. Swithers, a Purdue professor of psychological sciences and a behavioral neuroscientist, shows that diet beverages may not be the healthy choice to manage weight that they appear.
 Swithers reviewed and evaluated the most recent research on whether consuming high-intensity sweeteners, despite having zero or low calories, may result in overeating, weight gain or other health problems.
 Her findings were published in Trends in Endocrinology & Metabolism. (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - Diet beverages and other non-caloric, artificially sweetened foods and drinks may not be the healthy choice to manage weight that they appear, according to a Purdue University expert's review of recent scientific studies.
 "Public health officials are rightfully concerned about the consequences of consuming sugar-sweetened beverages, such as soft drinks, but these warnings may need to be expanded to advocate limiting the intake of all sweeteners, including no-calorie sweeteners and so-called diet soft drinks," said Susan E.
 Swithers, a professor of psychological sciences and a behavioral neuroscientist. "Although it seems like common sense that diet sodas would not be problematic, that doesn't appear to be the case.
 Findings from a variety of studies show that routine consumption of diet sodas, even one per day, can be connected to higher likelihood of heart disease, stroke, diabetes, metabolic syndrome and high blood pressure, in addition to contributing to weight gain.
" Swithers, who studies ingestive behavior and body weight -specifically the roles that artificial sweeteners and other food substitutes play in weight management and eating - reviewed and evaluated the most recent research on whether consuming high-intensity sweeteners, despite their zero or low calories, may result in overeating, weight gain or other health problems.
 Her findings were published by Cell Press on Wednesday (July 10) in an opinion article in Trends in Endocrinology & Metabolism. 
The concerns for these chemical sweeteners emerged across studies that varied widely in design, methodology and population demographics, and they applied to sweeteners, such as aspartame, sucralose and saccharin.
 About 30 percent of adults and 15 percent of children in the United States consume artificial sweeteners. "The concern that these non-caloric sweeteners might not be healthy is a message that many people do not want to hear, especially as the prevalence of artificial sweeteners increases in other products," Swithers said.
 "There is a lot of pressure from the public health sector to find solutions to counter the rise of obesity and chronic disease, and there is a lot of money and business at stake for the food industry as it develops and promotes these products.
 Beverages are becoming political issues as government leaders and politicians seek regulation and taxing to limit their availability and consumption, but most of these measures exclude diet soft drinks because they are perceived as healthy.
 When it comes to making policy decisions, it's more important than ever that the science is considered and that the public understands what the science says in order to help them make the best health decisions.
" Swithers, who also is a member of Purdue's Ingestive Behavior Research Center, looked at a variety of studies, including the San Antonio Heart Study that reported an increase in body weight gain for adults and adolescents who consumed artificially sweetened beverages over beverages regularly sweetened.
 Data from a number of studies, including the Nurses' Health Study and the Health Professionals Follow-up Study also reported greater risk of type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease and metabolic syndrome, which is related to diabetes and cardiovascular problems, for consumers of artificially sweetened beverages.
 Some data indicated that those who consumed artificially sweetened beverages had double the risk of metabolic syndrome compared to non-consumers.
 Research also shows that non-caloric or reduced-calorie food and beverages interfere with a body's learned responses. The assumption is that fewer calories means less weight gain.
 Research, including studies from Swithers and colleagues, shows that frequent consumption of high-intensity sweeteners may have the opposite effect by confusing the body's natural ability to manage calories based on tasting something sweet.
 Swithers' research is funded by the National Institutes of Health, and she is continuing to study these effects. Expanding studies from animal models to humans is one of the challenges for Swithers and other researchers trying to answer questions about how diet drinks affect humans.
 The studies that show specific mechanisms and metabolic causes are from animal models. In human studies, researchers can only see correlations and not identify specific causes.
 Swithers said it also is challenging to do well-designed studies in humans because of how ubiquitous sweeteners have become in the mainstream diet.
 "For example, what are the biological mechanisms and behavioral factors that influence this connection between diet soda and diabetes?
" Swithers said. "Some of the connection could be related to how people behave by saying to themselves, 'I'm having a diet soda, so this cheeseburger is OK.
' But the animal work indicates that health problems can occur even without this kind of thinking. Since we don't fully understand the mechanisms, we don't really know how to reverse the consequences, and that will continue to be a problem as our population ages and the rates of chronic diseases like type 2 diabetes continue to increase.
" Note to Journalists: Journalists interested in a copy of the journal article can contact Amy Patterson Neubert, Purdue News Service, at 765-494-9723, 
apatterson@purdue.edu As the negative impact of consuming sugar-sweetened beverages on weight and other health outcomes has been increasingly recognized, many people have turned to high-intensity sweeteners like aspartame, sucralose and saccharin as way to reduce risk of these consequences.
 However, accumulating evidence suggests that frequent consumers of these sugar substitutes may also be at increased risk for excessive weight gain, metabolic syndrome, Type 2 diabetes (T2D) and cardiovascular disease.
 This paper reviews these findings and considers the hypothesis that consuming sweet-tasting, but non-caloric or reduced-calorie food and beverages, interferes with learned responses that normally contribute to glucose and energy homeostasis.
 Because of this interference, frequent consumption of high-intensity sweeteners may have the counterintuitive effect of inducing metabolic derangements.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/prof-how-to-help-children-cope-with-tornado-season-fears.html
<Content> Prof: How to help children cope with tornado season fears
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The tornado that hit the Oklahoma City area on Monday (May 20) may be especially frightening for children because of the destruction to schools and the number of children who died, says a Purdue University child development expert.
 "Children should be reassured that this was a very unusual storm and adults can tell them that most won't be like this, and we, as a family or class, will do everything we can to stay safe and be there for each other," says Judith Myers-Walls, professor emeritus of child development.
 "Children are limited in their ability to understand causality and probability, so it's likely their fears will be raised by news stories of this event.
 "Remind children about the adults in their lives who are there to take care of them and keep them safe. Fear comes from feeling out of control, so children can feel empowered when they learn safety procedures.
 But also keep in mind that some procedures can make children anxious if they feel they don't have the resources to complete them.
 For example, children who don't have a basement to take shelter in may be especially worried, so review the family plan so they are aware of alternate safe home shelter locations.
" To help younger children not be so fearful following a tornado siren drill or warning, have a special activity that is just for the safe area, such as a board game.
 "Try your best to normalize tornado warnings, and it will help younger children not to panic when it is necessary to move to the shelter - either as practice or in a real emergency," Myers-Walls says.
 "But, parents know their child best, and while some may need to be reassured, others will need to be reminded of the potential danger and to take the warnings seriously.
" Children who are especially concerned about what happened in Oklahoma can be encouraged to help the community by running a lemonade stand to raise money for the Red Cross or visiting the local emergency response organization to see how it helps people, Myers-Walls says.
 Children also can deal with fears by expressing themselves through telling stories or drawing pictures. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/prof-nations-first-military-park-celebrates-battles-150th-anniversary.html
<Content> Prof: Nation's first military park celebrates battle's 150th anniversary
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — There are dozens of Civil War battle anniversaries being recognized during the war's 150th anniversary, but one that stands out is Chickamauga because it's the nation's first military park, says a Purdue University historian.
 "Prior to the creation of the military park at Chickamauga, private groups, corporations and donors were the force behind memorials and monuments," says Caroline E.
 Janney, an associate professor of history. Her research focuses on memory and the Civil War. "These private interests, especially in the Civil War's aftermath, were not always moving the nation forward with reunion and reconciliation.
" For example, Gettysburg National Military Park, which is the most popular Civil War battlefield, was created first and foremost as a union memorial field, Janney says.
 Plans for other national government military parks, including Antietam, Shiloh and Gettysburg, followed the Chickamauga & Chattanooga National Military Park announcement.
 Plans to establish a national park at Chickamauga began in 1897 during the silver anniversary. By adding the nearby battle of Chattanooga to the legislation, promoters believed it would help the nation heal.
 It would honor both a Union and Confederate victory. The plan for the park was approved in 1890, and the federal government dedicated it in 1895, 32 years after the Sept.
 19,1863 battle. The Chickamauga battle marked the union's most significant loss and one of the bloodiest of the war. It was second only to Gettysburg in casualties.
 "The common saying is the winner writes history, and the private interest groups and individual states were telling the story they wanted to tell through these memorials," Janney says.
 "With national government oversight, the memorial planners could promote reconciliation by ensuring that both sides were equally represented in the processions and dedication services, and ultimately the memorial.
 "But moving forward in harmony also meant ignoring the causes and consequences of the war. Newspaper reports from the 1895 dedication heralded cordial veterans on both sides, but sectionalism was alive and well.
" Janney's research on Chickamauga and the differences between reunion and reconciliation is the focus of her recent book, "Remembering the Civil War: Reunion and the Limits of Reconciliation.
" Janney also is the president-elect for the Society of Civil War Historians and author of "Burying the Dead but Not the Past: Ladies' Memorial Associations and the Lost Cause.
" College of Liberal Arts </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/prof-put-energy-drinks-to-rest-during-summers-heat.html
<Content> Prof: Put energy drinks to rest during summer's heat
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — People consuming energy drinks as a cool way to beat the summer heat need to be aware of serving sizes, stimulant ingredients and possible medication interactions before increasing the amount they drink, says a Purdue University expert.
 "Beverage consumption is likely to increase during the hot weather, and there are risks to drinking products with high levels of caffeine or dietary supplements that are stimulants, especially when dehydration can be an issue," said Janet R.
 Thorlton, an assistant professor of nursing who studies dietary supplements. "In general, people underestimate how much fluid loss they experience on a hot day, and for those working in the heat, energy drinks, may not be the best option.
" * Take note of the ingredients. For example, taurine, a common booster in energy drinks, can potentiate the effects of caffeine.
 * Check with a pharmacist regarding possible interactions between prescription medicines and energy drink ingredients. Some asthma and attention deficit disorder medications contain stimulants, which can enhance the effects of an energy drink.
 Some unsafe adverse effects are agitation, anxiety, irregular heartbeat, high blood pressure and insomnia. "There is a difference between sports drinks and energy drinks, and while they may sit on store shelves side by side, they are regulated differently," Thorlton says.
 "There is more awareness in athletic communities, and many coaches educate their players about the best way to hydrate during practices in hot weather.
 However, there are a number of people working outside in construction and yard maintenance who may not have this information. Energy drinks also are growing in popularity for people in the service, young parents and students.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/prof-sandy-communities-rebuilding-should-strengthen-more-than-just-structures.html
<Content> Prof: Sandy communities rebuilding should strengthen more than just structures
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Rebuilding communities after a natural disaster, such as Superstorm Sandy, is about more than just about physical infrastructure, says a Purdue University disaster recovery expert.
 "Because communities, such as the East Coast hit by last year's Superstorm Sandy, are vulnerable, physical fixes alone will not be sufficient to mitigate against future disasters and are not the only thing to be considered when rebuilding," says Daniel P.
 Aldrich, associate professor of political science and author of "Building Resilience: Social Capital in Post-Disaster Recovery."
 Later this month is the first anniversary of Superstorm Sandy, the hurricane that affected many states and caused severe damage to New York and New Jersey.
 "Often communities are rebuilding while looking toward the next possible disaster," he says. "And recent reports that global weather is likely to become more severe is a factor that areas prone to disasters and most recently affected areas must address as they rebuild.
 The power of community in drawing back residents, the critical nature of trust in government and neighbors, and the importance of long-term commitments have never been so important.
" Aldrich's research, including the 2011 tsunami and nuclear disaster in Japan and the 2005 flood damage from Hurricane Katrina, shows that people who have stronger individual friendships, community connections and civic involvement are more likely to have access to resources and information that can help them return and rebuild.
 These same characteristics also can help people survive a disaster and cope with the immediate aftereffects. "Knowing how valuable a community's social network is with the threat of future disasters, governments and emergency planners will need to incorporate these in disaster planning not only to survive the next weather catastrophe but also to strengthen the community for the long term," he says.
 In addition to studying the 2011 Japan and 2005 Hurricane Katrina disasters, Aldrich also has studied disaster recovery and community rebuilding following the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami in Tamil Nadu, the 1923 earthquake in Tokyo and the 1995 earthquake in Kobe, Japan.
 He is author of "Site Fights: Divisive Facilities and Civil Society in Japan and the West." Department of Political Science </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/professional-basketball-league-adopts-swoosh-electronic-statistics-program.html
<Content> Professional basketball league adopts Swoosh! electronic statistics program
 The Swoosh! program, developed by Purdue Research Park-based DelMar Software Development LLC, tracks and accumulates basketball statistics in real time via a touch screen.
 The IBA-PBL professional basketball league has chosen Swoosh! as its exclusive statistics program for the league and its 17 teams.
 (DelMar Software Development image) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind., and CHICAGO - Software used to track basketball game statistics at the high school and AAU levels has been adopted by a professional basketball league and will be implemented in its 2013 season.
 Executives at the IBA-PBL announced that Swoosh! has been chosen as the exclusive, official statistics program for the league and its 17 teams.
 Swoosh! was developed and commercialized by DelMar Software Development LLC, based in the Purdue Research Park. Barry Bradford, president and co-owner of the IBA-PBL, said the technology improves upon the pen-and-paper method of tracking game statistics in several ways.
 "Swoosh! tracks and accumulates statistics via a touch screen. This data can be used to quickly create shot charts and reports for coaches and other team personnel.
 It will be easy for team officials to use, and DelMar Software Development provides great support," he said. "Swoosh! also provides tempo-free statistics, which are not affected by an opponent's style of play.
 It creates statistics like percentage of rebounds available, assists and turnovers per 100 possessions, and effective field goal percentage.
 Teams and fans should both enjoy tempo-free stats, which provide truer comparisons of players than traditional statistics." Game statistics will be updated on the league's website, 
http://www.iba-pbl.net, and each team's website. The league's teams are Albany (N.Y.) Legends; Bloomington (Ill.) Flex; Chicago Redline; Holland (Mich.
) Dream; Indiana Diesels; Gary (Ind.) Splash; Kankakee County (Ill.) Soldiers; Kenosha (Wis.) Ballers; Lake County (Ill.) Stars; Lake Michigan Admirals; Lansing (Mich.
) Capitals; New Jersey G-Force; Rochester (N.Y.) RazorSharks; Sauk Valley (Ill.) Predators; Springfield (Ill.) Xpress; St. Louis Trotters; and West Virginia Miners.
 Mikel Berger, partner at DelMar Software Development, said the company is proud of its partnership with the IBA-PBL and its community-first philosophy.
 "The motto of the IBA-PBL is 'In the community, about the community, for the community,' and teams follow through on that. Players meet with the public during school visits, community events and involvement with AAU programs," he said.
 "The league reaches out to young people from age 5 through college years, encouraging them to work hard and earn college scholarships.
" The league office complimented DelMar Software Development for its work to implement the Swoosh! technology into the IBA-PBL's system.
 "Everyone at the company has been phenomenal working with the IBA-PBL on deploying the Swoosh! statistics technology," Bradford said.
 "They have provided all we have asked for in technical expertise and customer service, even traveling to Chicago and league games around the Midwest.
" DelMar Software Development is a team of software development specialists with a diverse skill set that believes in collaboration, candor and staying engaged with you from the very beginning.
 Regardless of if the software is for tracking basketball stats, modeling corn growth, or running an election, DelMar has the software developers to turn your idea into software that is both cutting-edge and business wise.
 The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country in four locations across Indiana.
 The parks are home to nearly 240 companies that employ more than 4,200 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/professional-selling-center-plans-fall-workshop,-competitions.html
<Content> Professional selling center plans fall workshop, competitions
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's Center for Professional Selling will launch its fall sales competitions with a workshop designed to prepare students for the upcoming job fair season.
 The center, a part of the Department of Consumer Science in the College of Health and Human Sciences, is open to all Purdue students interested in careers in professional sales.
 Started in 2010, it helps students develop practical skills in all aspects of selling and sales management. "Professional selling is a fast-growing segment in business," said Chris Kowal, assistant professor of consumer science and director of the center.
 "Our goal with our workshops and competitions is to help students work on the skills in demand, including communications, consumer behavior, customer relations, sales management and marketing.
" The Aug. 28 career fair workshop will be sponsored by Coyote Logistics, a transportation and logistics service provider. Coyote staffers will be available at three stations where students can get résumé critiques, practice interviewing and give elevator pitches.
 Sponsored sales competitions during the fall semester include PepsiCo, Sept. 18; Northwestern Mutual, Sept. 25; AT&T, Oct. 23; and Victaulic, Nov.
 6. Some of the competitions will be multiple-day events with opportunities for students to learn more about the companies. PepsiCo will host an information session Sept.
 4 that will include Purdue chefs preparing appetizers using Frito-Lay snacks. Northwestern Mutual will bring in one of its managing directors, Jamie Asher, a former National Football League player, to talk to students Sept.
 16 about wealth management for athletes. "We're fortunate that these companies are willing to make the time and effort to help our students prepare for their careers," Kowal said.
 Danielle Liparoto, Coyote Logistics corporate recruiter, said, "Partnering with organizations like Purdue Center for Professional Selling gives us access to top talent and a chance to build strong relationships with students.
 The center has been a creative partner in helping us design activities that benefit students." For more information on the Center for Professional Selling, contact Jane E.
 Anderson, associate director, at 765-494-7860, professionalselling@purdue.edu. Jane E. Anderson, 765-494-7860, jane1@purdue.edu 
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/professor-boruch-to-graduates.html
<Content> Professor Boruch to graduates
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - First—of course of course and most important of all—cheers and cheers to you, the graduates! This is a thrilling day, and completely yours.
 Proof: we're all dressed up in these grave and funny outfits to mark your success, this occasion of great and happy change. I should be wearing my Janus mask too--Janus, the ancient Roman god of doorways whose double face looks one way into the future, and another way, to the past.
 He isn't confused or worried, just curious, and thoughtful. You finish as you commence, and this is the delicious moment of your passage.
 So allow yourself a little time travel. Soon this place will be that place, back there, and your visits here 10, 20, 30 years from now will startle you—the hallways of the buildings you knew so well will seem narrow, the ceilings lower, the students unthinkably young, everything so strange, almost surreal.
 You will be moved by the grief in that, and the wonder of ever having been so young yourself, that your years here were the occasion of a transformation you weren't quite aware was even happening when you were in the sweet, bewildering thick of it.
 And for those of you older, who came to begin or continue your education, in future visits this place will become the site of your daring and deliberation, and the great breath of relief and triumph in earning this degree.
 How the past morphs into the years to come can be both lovely and unsettling. Along those lines are more immediate matters to consider.
 My one-of-a-kind, most wonderful dentist, for instance, Bill Risk (Purdue, 1959!) who has practiced many decades now in Lafayette, as did his father and uncle before him.
 I love our chats when I am trapped in his chair with a little paper bib clipped around my neck. He's a superb conversationalist, as wild as his name, though I have to admit, it's hard to get a word in edgewise when he's packed my mouth with cotton and a dental dam, and I can only mumble enthusiastically in response.
 No matter. Dr. Risk is rich with stories, and my favorite orbits around a little cardboard suitcase. It seems that every summer, as children, he and his older brother were packed off from Lafayette to the state of Maine by train, to spend several weeks at a camp owned by their Uncle Clarence.
 Yet Dr. Risk's story begins much earlier. Sight-unseen, in 1928, a naturalist was hired to work at the camp, a 20-year-old who would continue to come by train too, summer after summer, his eye and ear alert to the woods.
 The first time though, Uncle Clarence was late in picking up his new staff member at the town depot, arriving a few minutes after the train had come and gone.
 He looked around and spotted a young man sitting stiffly on a bench, a small cardboard suitcase beside him. "But get this," Dr. Risk said to me, "that young man was….
" And here he paused, leaning closer—“Guess!" I raised my eyebrows, making a choked, muffled sound to mean how would I know? Come on, Dr.
 Risk, tell me already! "ROGER TORY PETERSON!" he stage-whispered, very loud. Now, I'm a birder, meaning I watch birds and am slowly learning their songs.
 And to a birder or to anyone even vaguely smitten with the natural world, this guy, Roger Tory Peterson—the writer of so many excellent guides to that world—is legend, hero, a saint, of sorts.
 He actually invented the modern go-to of that genre. And if you don't believe me," Dr. Risk continued, practically singing now, "check your Peterson guide.
 Uncle Clarence is THERE, right on the dedication page!" Going home, I did, I checked my old, beloved bird books. And he's right—Clarence Allen 
is warmly thanked on that page, edition after edition. Need I say that it delights me, Dr. Risk's joy in repeating this story? But a poignant detail continues to haunt, and begins to 
mean in larger ways, and in that lies the lasting power--and poetry--of image. That little cardboard suitcase. Which is pretty much all he had, the young man waiting at that town's tiny depot, on the verge of
 the remarkable fate that would befall him, however long it would take. My point, on this weighty occasion? Of course, and duh!: everyone starts somewhere.
 That little cardboard suitcase. Think of it as your education, as the key thing to cherish. Or as we often say in our house: the key to the treasure IS the treasure.
 Still, you must be ready for surprise. And here is where I welcome the 19th century British poet John Keats to this party, decent company for all of us.
 He died young, at 25, ravaged by the scourge totally mystifying in his era, tuberculosis, though he'd done a lot by then: hiked England and Scotland, fell in love, studied medicine for several years.
 It was terrible, the training required of doctors-to-be in the early 1800s, his assisting in surgeries before anesthesia, or any way to disinfect wounds; day after day his patients in agony, crying out as he cut into skin and muscle, vein and artery, legs going dark with gangrene.
 The dissection lab in his medical school at London's Guy's Hospital closed down in summer, given its unbearable stench. But Keats had options, other gifts in his cardboard suitcase.
 One was his passion for literature and language. Which is to say, his education—both his formal schooling and what he read on his own—allowed him, in the parlance of our time and place, a kind of "second major.
" Or just say his serious heart-and-bone- chilling work as an apprentice-physician deepened his thought and sense and shook him to the core, which turned out to be absolutely crucial to his writing.
 A small riff from his "Ode to a Nightingale" proves that, where the poet sets his dream of "song" and "mirth," his plea for "a beaker full of the warm South" against what clearly is drawn from his crushing experience of hospital life-- "the weariness, the fever, and the fret/Here, where men sit and hear each other groan… "Note to self then, and to all of you: everything matters!
 Get curious. Let things stick to you. You never know where your life will lead, to what discoveries of self and world. Thus the poems John Keats left behind, and his remarkable correspondence too.
 In one of those letters, he found this key to the universe, something he called "negative capability," a willful turn of mind he claimed Shakespeare had, that made a person "capable of being in uncertainties, mysteries, doubts without any irritable reaching after fact and reason….
 "To hover for a while amid seeming contradictions, to live comfortably with chaos and conflict, part wary of everything, part considering all sides--that's the trick perhaps, to savor such troubling moments as fruitful, a useful way to begin to understand what happens as the years mount up and weigh us down.
 William Blake, another English poet, had a similar thought that's often quoted, his "without contraries there is no progression"—which takes us a little farther, directly toward a goal, I suppose, into "progression," the next step.
 But it's Keats who honors the "beginner's mind," a point of wonder and humility out of which genuine engagement grows. Keep alert to what's opposite, and surprising.
 At the very least you will never be bored. Because here's the rewarding, demanding part of this whole business of the future: most education is self-education.
 You're not done, I'm not done. But that's good news. It isn't simply the amassing of facts and figures. It's a habit of thought and feeling and being, of opening and questioning and including.
 And that's what Purdue has offered you. Keep doing it! Give it time. The growth of the imagination is a life-long trust. Here's the truth: imagination—it’s not artsy-light or frivolous or mere frosting on the cake.
 Though it must be at the heart of genius, it's better than that--it's bottom-line, deep down, grubby day after day practical. Case in point: I listened once as Chicago artist Susanna Coffey described a taxi ride she took in that city.
 Suddenly some crazy driver peeled out of an alley, nearly colliding and ripping through her passenger door. I said nearly. The cabbie hit the brakes and swerved safely, and all was well.
 And did he blurt out what most of us would have? A loud Geez! and What a jerk! No. After a minute, she heard him say quietly, through clenched teeth: 
that guy has no imagination. There it is then: imagination as a key to empathy, to seeing through to possibilities beyond conclusion, to 
not cracking up your car. I imagine and hope for you a few things other than your getting back in one piece today, on your drive home.
 For one, money must be made--necessary now, and probably forever--but when you love what you do, and believe in something larger than your own gain, you actually forget about that.
 Do you know what that's called? Freedom. As for the computer, the TV: beware. But you already get that—right – how they can lobotomize you, how the cheapest elements of our culture can flash from those screens.
 We're all susceptible, believe me. Just be braver than your handheld; turn it off and talk to people, face to face. And in the years to come, there's always John Keats to channel on occasion or a lot, his holding back at first, his light touch welcoming doubt and mystery and uncertainty to help you figure your way through the world.
 Part of that means continuing to read good stuff—widely and with hunger, beyond your usual interests and take on things. The great subjects of poetry are pretty simple: death, love, time, knowledge, beauty.
 They don't need much help coming down to us, playing out in the familiar, the sweet ordinary. Think about route 65 or 231, say, driving through Indiana, passing the vast realms of soybeans and corn, distant houses, small towns whose names on signs puzzle or charm.
 And the hay you see, bundled up after harvest, huge rolls of it scattered in the fields: I love the poet Jane Kenyon's lines about that.
 "I wish you would look at the hay," she wrote, "the beautiful, sane and solid bales of hay." Note that rare and sacred word: sane
. Take that with you, in your cardboard suitcase. We'll all be under the sod in a hundred years. Relish your life. So what if most of our days turn in their familiar orbit of wake and work and sleep, our habits, all the little compelling weirdnesses that absorb us.
 That's solace, and good grounding. But there's also the sight of Earth from afar, from the astronaut's cockpit window. Your mission—should you choose to accept it—is to make peace and honest trouble between those separate worlds until what is small looms large, and what is large opens to us, eye-level, fully human.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/program-provides-fun,-learning-activities-to-children-with-disabilities.html
<Content> Program provides fun, learning activities to children with disabilities
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Children ages 3-18 with physical, cognitive and emotional disabilities can participate in a seven-week Purdue University physical activity and aquatics program that begins in October.
 PETE's PALs, which stands for Physical Education Teacher Educators Supporting Physical Activity, Learning and Service, pairs children with a Purdue student clinician to work individually on physical fitness, swimming and water safety skills.
 The program is supported by and housed in Purdue's Department of Health and Kinesiology. "We help children with a variety of disabilities, and each child's program is designed to fit his or her needs," said K.
 Andrew R. Richards, program co-coordinator and graduate teaching assistant. "We focus on physical fitness activities to improve muscular strength, endurance and flexibility; body awareness and spatial orientation; and fundamental motor-patterns and sport skills.
" Some of the past participants' disabilities have included autism spectrum disorders; intellectual disabilities, such as Down's syndrome; and physical disabilities, such as cerebral palsy.
 Applications, due Sept. 20, are online at http://www.purdue.edu/hhs/hk/petespals/. Questions can be directed to Richards at karichar@purdue.edu
, 413-358-1075. Purdue undergraduate and graduate students interested in volunteering also can submit an application by Sept. 20.
 The program, which is $30 per child, meets 6-8 p.m. on Wednesdays beginning Oct. 9 and running through Nov. 20 at Faith Community Center in Lafayette.
 This semester PETE's PALs will also be parting with Purdue Tennis to host one session at Purdue's Swartz Tennis Center. Since 2009 about 300 children have participated in the various sessions.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/project-aims-to-mass-produce-nanopetals-for-sensors,-batteries.html
<Content> Project aims to mass-produce 'nanopetals' for sensors, batteries
 These color-enhanced scanning electron microscope images show nanosheets resembling tiny rose petals. The nanosheets are key components of a new type of biosensor that can detect minute concentrations of glucose in saliva, tears and urine.
 The technology might eventually help to eliminate or reduce the frequency of using pinpricks for diabetes testing. (Purdue University photo/Jeff Goecker) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Researchers at Purdue University are developing a method to mass-produce a new type of nanomaterial for advanced sensors and batteries, with an eye toward manufacturing in the Midwest.
 Research findings indicate the material shows promise as a sensor for detecting glucose in the saliva or tears and for "supercapacitors" that could make possible fast-charging, high-performance batteries.
 However, for the material to be commercialized researchers must find a way to mass-produce it at low cost. "It's one thing to say you've got a new wonder material, but can you prove that it can be made on a commercial scale?
" said Arvind Raman, Robert V. Adams Professor of Mechanical Engineering. "In many cases we find that fundamental research needs to be done for scaling up.
 You want to be able to produce large quantities of the material at 50 cents per square meter." Now, a team of Purdue researchers will aim to do just that.
 The project, funded with a $1.5 million grant from the National Science Foundation, focuses on creating a nanomanufacturing method that is "scalable," or capable of mass production at low cost.
 The underlying technology was developed by a research group led by Timothy Fisher, the James G. Dwyer Professor in Mechanical Engineering.
 It consists of vertical nanostructures resembling tiny rose petals made of a material called graphene, which is a single-atom-thick film of carbon.
 "Using these graphene nanopetals we have realized exceptional performance in a wide range of devices at laboratory scales," Fisher said.
 The researchers hope to boost the production speed of nanopetal-coated surfaces to 10 square meters per hour, representing a dramatic increase over the laboratory-scale production rate.
 Raman has expertise in roll-to-roll manufacturing, a mainstay of many industrial operations including paper and sheet-metal production.
 He models the mechanics of the process of creating flexible materials in sheets at high speed and under tension. "A key factor is going to be industry partners," he said.
 "There are many industries that have roll-to-roll operations. So focusing on roll-to-roll as a platform for doing nanomaterials production is very strategic for the Midwest.
" "You have to be able to measure the material while it is being manufactured, and this is a challenge because of the nanometer scale of the petals," he said.
 The graphene nanopetals also have shown promise as a "thermal-interface" material to keep computer chips from overheating. "A slew of new device and material concepts based on graphene nanopetals are emerging in applications as diverse as carbon fiber composites and new thermal-interface materials," Raman said.
 "Commercial interest is extremely high for this recent carbon nanomaterial. " Other key researchers in the project are Alina Alexeenko, an associate professor of aeronautics and astronautics; Alexander Wei, a professor in the Department of Chemistry; Ernesto E.
 Marinero, a professor of engineering practice in the schools of Chemical Engineering and Materials Engineering; and Euiwon Bae, a research professor of mechanical engineering.
 The nanopetals are created in a vacuum by exposing a cloth of carbon fiber to high-energy plasma that contains hydrogen ions and other ingredients, a process known as plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition.
 Alexeenko will lead work to model the plasma reactor and to optimize its conditions for fast and environmentally friendly conversion of raw materials, such as methane and hydrogen, into carbon nanopetals.
 Wei will functionalize petals with metal nanoparticles and enzymes that recognize glucose or other target molecules for biosensing.
 Marinero will focus on reliability of devices made using the nanomaterial, and Bae will work to ensure proper petal size by analyzing patterns of light scattering from the material's surface.
 Most of the research will be based at the Birck Nanotechnology Center in Purdue's Discovery Park. "Scale-up production is a key challenge facing nanotechnology," said Ali Shakouri, the Mary Jo and Robert L.
 Kirk Director of the Birck Nanotechnology Center and a professor of electrical and computer engineering. "This NSF project is part of a broader nanomanufacturing initiative at the Birck Nanotechnology Center where we focus on roll-to-roll production of smart thin films for applications in pharmacy and food packaging.
" Wei said, "The project represents the front edge of a much larger movement at Purdue to synergize core research expertise in science and engineering in a way that provides graduate students with opportunities to overcome the challenges of converting exciting research discoveries into products that can be commercialized.
" Technologies developed in the project might be commercialized through collaboration with a local start-up company, Folium Nanotechnologies LLC, co-founded by Fisher and Marinero, as well as Roche Diagnostics and the Battery Innovation Center.
 The center was launched this year to leverage Indiana's public- and private-sector assets in advanced battery technologies to facilitate research and development, rapid prototyping and contract manufacturing for industry, academic and military customers.
 "A regional workshop series on roll-to-roll nanomanufacturing will be organized to serve as a catalyst to innovation in the Midwest by bringing together interested small, medium and large enterprises together with original equipment manufacturers and university researchers," Raman said.
 The researchers also will make available advanced simulation tools for vacuum-based roll-to-roll processes. The tools will be available to companies through the cyberinfrastructure of the manufacturing HUB and nanoHUB, an interactive website that makes available scientific simulations, seminars, interactive courses and other specialized nanotech-related materials.
 "We will educate the U.S. workforce through an innovative online class on nanomanufacturing offered as part of the nanoHUB U initative," Raman said.
 "Many results from this research are not just applicable to graphene nanopetal technology, but rather to a wide variety of nanomaterials manufactured in low-pressure and ambient roll-to-roll nanomanufacturing processes," he said.
 Ali Shakouri, 765-496-6105, shakouri@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/public-opinion-expert-gov.-shutdown-provides-canvas-for-future-party-leaders.html
<Content> Public opinion expert: Gov. shutdown provides canvas for future party leaders
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — While the negative public perception of government is likely to carry over to midterm elections, some politicians are banking on voters remembering their individual roles in the shutdown in a way that helps launch their political careers, says a Purdue University public opinion expert.
 "History is not likely to repeat itself with the animosity that followed the shutdowns in the late 1990s, but public opinion today makes it clear that Americans want a results-oriented government.
 Parties are being hurt and will continue to be hurt if they are perceived as putting their own interests above national interests," says 
James McCann, a professor of political science who studies voter behavior and public opinion. "Citizens are clearly paying attention to current events in Washington.
 The question is whether the current crisis will lead to greater civic engagement as we move toward the midterm and 2016 presidential elections.
" The shutdown, just like other events in the national spotlight, is a time for the next crop of political leaders to emerge and make a name for themselves, McCann says.
 However, this individual showcasing is not always best for the political parties. "Matching the individual ambitions of, say, Senator Ted Cruz, to the party's long-term goals is not easy," McCann says.
 "Many emerging leaders in the major parties are branding themselves through particular issues. At times this divides them from partisan leaders.
 Figuring out how to reconcile the individual ambitions of lawmakers with the organizational interests of the Republicans and Democrats is a sixty-four-dollar-question in American politics.
 At the moment, this tension is hitting the Republicans especially hard." </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/public-opinion-expert-gov.-shutdown-provides-canvas-for-future-party-leaders.html
<Content> Public opinion expert: Gov. shutdown provides canvas for future party leaders
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — While the negative public perception of government is likely to carry over to midterm elections, some politicians are banking on voters remembering their individual roles in the shutdown in a way that helps launch their political careers, says a Purdue University public opinion expert.
 "History is not likely to repeat itself with the animosity that followed the shutdowns in the late 1990s, but public opinion today makes it clear that Americans want a results-oriented government.
 Parties are being hurt and will continue to be hurt if they are perceived as putting their own interests above national interests," says 
James McCann, a professor of political science who studies voter behavior and public opinion. "Citizens are clearly paying attention to current events in Washington.
 The question is whether the current crisis will lead to greater civic engagement as we move toward the midterm and 2016 presidential elections.
" The shutdown, just like other events in the national spotlight, is a time for the next crop of political leaders to emerge and make a name for themselves, McCann says.
 However, this individual showcasing is not always best for the political parties. "Matching the individual ambitions of, say, Senator Ted Cruz, to the party's long-term goals is not easy," McCann says.
 "Many emerging leaders in the major parties are branding themselves through particular issues. At times this divides them from partisan leaders.
 Figuring out how to reconcile the individual ambitions of lawmakers with the organizational interests of the Republicans and Democrats is a sixty-four-dollar-question in American politics.
 At the moment, this tension is hitting the Republicans especially hard." </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/public-opinion-expert-gov.-shutdown-provides-canvas-for-future-party-leaders.html
<Content> Public opinion expert: Gov. shutdown provides canvas for future party leaders
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — While the negative public perception of government is likely to carry over to midterm elections, some politicians are banking on voters remembering their individual roles in the shutdown in a way that helps launch their political careers, says a Purdue University public opinion expert.
 "History is not likely to repeat itself with the animosity that followed the shutdowns in the late 1990s, but public opinion today makes it clear that Americans want a results-oriented government.
 Parties are being hurt and will continue to be hurt if they are perceived as putting their own interests above national interests," says 
James McCann, a professor of political science who studies voter behavior and public opinion. "Citizens are clearly paying attention to current events in Washington.
 The question is whether the current crisis will lead to greater civic engagement as we move toward the midterm and 2016 presidential elections.
" The shutdown, just like other events in the national spotlight, is a time for the next crop of political leaders to emerge and make a name for themselves, McCann says.
 However, this individual showcasing is not always best for the political parties. "Matching the individual ambitions of, say, Senator Ted Cruz, to the party's long-term goals is not easy," McCann says.
 "Many emerging leaders in the major parties are branding themselves through particular issues. At times this divides them from partisan leaders.
 Figuring out how to reconcile the individual ambitions of lawmakers with the organizational interests of the Republicans and Democrats is a sixty-four-dollar-question in American politics.
 At the moment, this tension is hitting the Republicans especially hard." </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/publication-helps-homeowners-identify,-repair-tree-damage.html
<Content> Publication helps homeowners identify, repair tree damage
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Wave after wave of summer storms have battered trees in Indiana and other Midwest states. The extent of damage done to branches and trunks will determine whether the tree can heal on its own, a homeowner can make repairs themselves or if a professional arborist needs to be brought in, says Purdue Extension's urban forestry specialist.
 "Oftentimes nothing needs to be done at all and the tree will repair the damage on its own," Lindsey Purcell said. "I think we tend to overreact and believe the tree should be cut down, when what you really want to do is try to save the tree and reduce the risk of failure, which could hurt someone or damage something.
" Purcell describes common types of warm- and cold-weather storm damage and treatment options in Trees and Storms, a new Purdue Extension publication.
 The publication, FNR-FAQ-12-W, can be downloaded free at https://mdc.itap.purdue.edu/item.asp?item_number=FNR-FAQ-12-W. Most minor tree damage can be left alone unless it poses a danger or risk to people, Purcell said.
 Repairing more extensive damage depends on the size and extent of the tree injury, he said. "I tell most homeowners if you can't make simple repairs to damage from the ground then you need to call a professional," he said.
 "When you start talking about ladders and long reaches, that's when safety becomes an issue to the homeowner. Professional arborists know how to make those repairs safely.
 You don't want to make a bad situation worse by trying to do something you're not capable of doing." In Trees and Storms, words and pictures are used to explain and illustrate five common types of damage:
 Other sections cover proper tree planting and pruning practices for reducing storm damage potential, methods for assessing damage risks, steps to take after a storm and hiring a certified arborist.
 "By contacting a certified arborist you're getting someone with a recognized knowledge base that is consistent around the world," Purcell said.
 "It doesn't necessarily mean you'll have to spend more money than you would on other tree professionals. It just means they've been through a certification program to demonstrate competency on mitigating storm damage.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue,-coursenetworking-to-collaborate-on-next-generation-edtech.html
<Content> Purdue, CourseNetworking to collaborate on next-generation edtech
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Making the higher education learning experience more mobile, social, and altogether part of the modern student's life is the goal of a new collaboration between Purdue University and 
CourseNetworking, which is also known as "CN." CN is an Indianapolis-based company that is developing next-generation learning management systems for colleges and universities, as well as kindergarten through 12th grade, that combine the social aspects of Facebook or Twitter with the familiar educational platforms.
 As part of the collaboration, CN will begin working with Purdue's Studio mobile classroom apps and data analysis tools to either incorporate them into the CN product or to use them as a springboard to develop completely new technologies.
 Ali Jafari, professor of computer and information technology at Purdue's School of Engineering and Technology and director of the CyberLab, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis, is the founder of CN.
 He is also a serial entrepreneur with an impressive track record in developing technologies for higher education. Jafari's previous projects include Indiana University's Oncourse, and the ANGEL Learning Management System, which was sold to Blackboard in 2009 for $100 million.
 "The partnership presents us with a huge opportunity but also a huge amount of homework to do," Jafari says. "But I'm very interested in having a partner with whom we can brainstorm new ideas.
" Purdue brings to the table its portfolio of nine Studio apps, which boost student engagement and success. The Studio apps are developed by Information Technology at Purdue's informatics unit, which is led by Kyle Bowen.
 Bowen says in addition to the technologies, Purdue is also interested in the commercial success and expertise of CN. "Purdue has a rich set of learning technologies, and CourseNetworking could supplement these and also help us move them to market faster," he says.
 Bowen adds that although CN is a new type of learning management system, this doesn't necessarily mean that Purdue is planning to move away from longtime vendor Blackboard.
 "We're not moving away from Blackboard, but we are looking at supporting multiple levels of learning management, and CN fits in with that approach," Bowen says.
 "CN offers fewer features but also more flexibility and greater ease of use than competing projects, and this can reduce barriers for faculty who have been reluctant to use an LMS for their course before.
" Jafari says the partnership will create new edtech tools that will appeal to today's digital native students. "The learning systems we have today were developed almost two decades ago," Jafari says.
 "We need to invent the next generation. We need to learn a lesson from Facebook and Twitter that connecting people together and let them learn from each other is a more effective way to go.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue,-indy-partnership-hold-economic-development-summit.html
<Content> Purdue, Indy Partnership hold economic development summit
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's Office of Engagement and Indy Partnership held an information summit Wednesday (Sept.
 18) for Indianapolis-area economic development officials and their staffs. "We wanted to let economic development professionals in Marion and surrounding counties - those who are represented by Indy Partnership - know about the expertise Purdue has available to help them," said Barbara Alder, director of the Purdue Office of Engagement for Indianapolis.
 "The format was designed to give them overviews on Purdue programs and capabilities in the morning and a chance to talk with Purdue officials from specific areas in the afternoon.
" Dan Hasler, president of Purdue Research Foundation, opened the program, followed by an industry sector analysis by Ed Morrison, regional economic development adviser for the Purdue Center for Regional Development.
 Three half-hour panel discussions focused on nurturing and advancing entrepreneurialism, attracting new businesses, and supporting and growing existing businesses.
 "We call them super rapid-fire panels," Alder said. "No one speaks for more than a couple of minutes. Attendees were able to delve more deeply into specifics during the afternoon, which was set up almost like a trade show.
" The program was a first for the Office of Engagement. Alder plans to offer similar summits in other areas of the state. Source:
 Barbara Alder, 317-632-0714, balder@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue,-iu-to-showcase-technologies-for-commercialization-at-oct.-9-event-in-fort-wayne.html
<Content> Purdue, IU to showcase technologies for commercialization at Oct. 9 event in Fort Wayne
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind., and FORT WAYNE, Ind. - An innovation that could help surgeons determine if a pacemaker has been implanted correctly will be presented along with two other Purdue University discoveries at an Oct.
 9 event in Fort Wayne. The Fort Wayne Technology Showcase will be 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. EDT at the Cole Training Room in the Northeast Indiana Innovation Center
, 3201 Stellhorn Road, Fort Wayne. The program is free to business and community leaders, entrepreneurs, investors and technology specialists.
 An RSVP is requested and seating is limited. To register, contact Sean Ryan, director of engagement at Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne
, ryans@ipfw.edu * Safe Pace, a pacemaker lead placement system that tests the stability of wires that run from the pacemaker to the heart during implantation.
 The system aims to improve a pacemaker's effectiveness by reducing lead dislodgement. * Radiofrequency probe for magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy, a method that uses a probe to investigate structural and chemical information at a single-cell level.
 It could allow researchers to better understand cell movement and physical and chemical properties. * Vibrational photoacoustic imaging, a system that uses an adjustable laser beam to produce a signal that images tissue.
 It could allow medical professionals to visualize the inside of a patient's body without surgery or dyes. These technologies are ready to be commercialized for the marketplace through the Purdue 
Office of Technology Commercialization. Summaries of other Purdue discoveries that are ready for commercialization will be available at the event.
 Three technologies commercialized by the Indiana University Research & Technology Corporation also will be presented at the showcase: hydrodynamic treatment of kidney injury, system architecture optimization and Biochar - black gold of the 21st Century.
 Purdue University's patented technologies include new cancer treatments, alternative fuels, biomedical devices, agriculture innovations and others that are available for licensing through the Office of Technology Commercialization.
 For more information, call 765-588-3475, email otcip@prf.org or visit www.otc-prf.org/otc. The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization
 operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States. Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 Source: Elizabeth Hart-Wells, 765-588-3473, eahart-wells@prf.org</Content>

text/css
<Content> Purdue, Ivy Tech Community College awarded nearly $900,000 grant from NSF to address skills gap in logistics
 Purdue, Ivy Tech Community College awarded nearly $900,000 grant from NSF to address skills gap in logistics Purdue University and Ivy Tech Community College were recently awarded nearly $900,000 in grants to address the skills gap and technical demands in technology supply chain, logistics, and manufacturing operations careers.
 The collaborative project is titled "Technology-Based Logistics: Leveraging Indiana's Role as the Crossroads of America." Known as the "Crossroads of America," Indiana offers convenient access to products for two-thirds of the U.S population, and is ranked among the top 10 states for its "business-friendly atmosphere.
" Indiana's workforce, however, is falling short of meeting industry's technical demands – particularly in technology supply chain, logistics and manufacturing operations careers.
 Ivy Tech and Purdue will address this gap by providing a diverse population of college students with a direct pathway for earning both their associate degree and bachelor's degree in the field of technology-based logistics.
 "We are excited to bring forth this collaborative project with Purdue University, which will allow us to promote the great opportunities that exist in the logistics and manufacturing sectors," said Dr.
 Mary Ostrye, Provost and Senior Vice President for Ivy Tech Community College. "Ensuring our student have clear pathways to transfer and continue on to their four-year degree is extremely important to the success of our students, and we are extremely grateful to have this grant and the opportunity to partner with Purdue on this transfer initiative.
" "This is a great opportunity for us to focus on educating students at all levels about the potential of logistics careers," said Edie Schmidt, professor of technology leadership and innovation and principal investigator for the Purdue team members.
 "As we educate and train more people to succeed in this field, the economy of the state of Indiana will benefit." "The College of Technology at Purdue has been a strong advocate of increasing the technological workforce of the state and improving employees' access to pertinent education," said Gary Bertoline, dean of the College of the Technology.
 "We're excited to add the logistics initiative to the mix of programs we collaborate with Ivy Tech on." The goal of the proposed program is to fully leverage Indiana's central geographic location and manufacturing leadership to develop a robust technology-based logistics program designed to meet the growing demands of Indiana's employers.
 This will be achieved by fulfilling several key objectives, including working directly with K-12 schools to inform Indiana high school and middle school students about educational and career opportunities in the fields of logistics, developing curricula for Ivy Tech and Purdue, articulating the Ivy Tech and Purdue credits for the associate and bachelor's degree programs, and implementing an outreach and recruitment program to encourage Ivy Tech associate degree students to continue their education through to a bachelor's degree.
 Ivy Tech Community College is the state's largest public postsecondary institution and the nation's largest singly accredited statewide community college system serving nearly 200,000 students annually.
 Ivy Tech has campuses throughout Indiana. It serves as the state’s engine of workforce development, offering affordable degree programs and training that are aligned with the needs of its community along with courses and programs that transfer to other colleges and universities in Indiana.
 It is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission and a member of the North Central Association. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue,-jackson-lab-combine-genetics,-engineering.html
<Content> Purdue, Jackson Lab combine genetics, engineering
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Purdue University and The Jackson Laboratory have created a new bioengineering facility and will hold a joint symposium to discuss the latest research in areas from implantable medical devices to the genetics behind human diseases.
 The First Purdue-Jackson Laboratory Symposium will be May 29-31 at Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, Maine. The two institutions last fall established a new laboratory, the Bioengineering Lab at JAX, and have several collaborations, including research related to prosthetics and glaucoma.
 "Jackson Lab has the expertise in genetics and we provide the engineering expertise," said Pedro Irazoqui, director of Purdue's 
Center for Implantable Devices and an associate professor of biomedical engineering and electrical and computer engineering. "The new bioengineering lab provides all the tools visiting engineers would need to do their work.
" The symposium taps into this spirit of collaboration, said Irazoqui, who led efforts to establish the lab, working with Jackson Lab researchers Simon John, Robert Burgess, Wayne Frankel, Greg Cox, Da-Ting Lin and Robert Braun.
 "What's unusual is that you have two institutions in two different states with two different areas of expertise - engineers collaborating with geneticists," Irazoqui said.
 "The objective of the symposium is to improve health care by teaming up engineering faculty with top genetics researchers at Jackson Laboratory.
" "By translational research, we mean technologies that can be moved from the academic world to the industrial world, from a research lab to a clinical setting, or bench-top to bedside," said Irazoqui (pronounced Ear-Ah-Tho-Kee).
 "One goal of this meeting is to increase our clinical impact by establishing new partnerships, and deepening existing collaborations.
" The symposium features talks on subjects including implantable devices that show promise in applications such as prosthetics and treating epilepsy and glaucoma; biomedical imaging technologies; neuro prosthesis and nerve repair; new biomaterials for tissue repair; genetic diseases including muscular dystrophies and premature aging; processes that allow stem cells to "self-renew"; the ability of mammalian cells to repair damaged DNA; physiology of the human ear; and neural circuits in brain disorders.
 More information about the Center for Implantable Devices, including a list of faculty involved, is available at https://engineering.purdue.edu/CID
. Registration is open to the public and can be completed at https://www.regonline.com/purdue-symp. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue,-lincoln-institute-to-offer-leadership-class-with-gettysburg-component.html
<Content> Purdue, Lincoln Institute to offer leadership class with Gettysburg component
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University will partner with the Lincoln Leadership Institute at Gettysburg, Pa., to offer a course in organizational leadership that includes three days at the Civil War battle site.
 Through "Experiencing Leadership: A Transformational Journey from Gettysburg," students will delve into President Abraham Lincoln's leadership style.
 They also will be put into situations similar to those of Civil War leaders like Col. Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain. The course will be led by Bradley Alge, an associate professor of management in Purdue's Krannert School of Management, and Steven B.
 Wiley, president of the Lincoln Leadership Institute at Gettysburg. "The Krannert School is producing the next generation of global leaders, and our students have the opportunity to hone their knowledge and leadership skills all over the world," says P.
 Christopher Earley, Krannert dean and James Brooke Henderson Professor of Management. "It is fitting that students will now have that opportunity at one of the most important historical settings in the United States.
 "While some people have talked about ‘flipping the classroom,' Professor Alge is reinventing it. This unique approach will complement the outstanding classroom and extracurricular educational opportunities currently available to our students.
" The course, which will be offered for the first time this spring, is graduate level but also open to undergraduates and non-students.
 The basic course will provide two hours of credit, and will consist of reading and online discussion followed by three days at Gettysburg.
 For an additional credit hour, students can continue with additional readings and leadership development planning. "The knowledge gained through this course will help students lead in stressful, uncertain situations where resources are limited and change is constant.
" Alge said. "These challenges were present in 1863 and are ubiquitous in most organizations today." At the Lincoln Leadership Institute, a faculty of generals, ambassadors and historians help leaders at all levels of organizations understand how lessons from the Battle of Gettysburg can translate into actions at their companies.
 Wiley and his staff use history as a metaphor and the battlefield as a classroom to help students experience how leadership can transform teams and organizations; develop essential communication skills; learn how to think strategically and critically; discover rational and emotional components of being a leader; identify and apply the characteristics of some of history's great leaders; and uncover strategies for selling, leading, negotiating and producing results.
 "We are excited to work with as prestigious an institution as Purdue University and its Krannert School of Management," Wiley said.
 "The institute has been privileged to work with leaders from the majority of Fortune 100 companies, dozens of federal agencies and more than 75 presidential appointees and their teams.
 Now we look forward to hosting tomorrow's leaders from Purdue." The class will begin May 13 with departure for Gettysburg on May 14, returning early on May 18.
 Registration deadline is April 15. More information on the course and registration are available at http://www.krannert.purdue.edu/off-campus-credit/lincoln/home.asp
 Source: Bradley Alge, 765-494-4483, algeb@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue,-other-indiana-college-students-invited-to-sept.-25-callout-for-100,000-contest.html
<Content> Purdue, other Indiana college students invited to Sept. 25 callout for $100,000 contest
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University graduate and undergraduate students in all academic disciplines are invited to a Sept. 25 callout meeting to learn about applying for a U.S.
 Department of Energy-sponsored business creation contest that includes a $100,000 prize. The 2014 Indiana Clean Energy Student Challenge
 kickoff meeting will be 6 p.m. in room 121 of the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, 1201 W. State St. Students from other Indiana colleges and universities can find the information on the Purdue 
Office of Technology Commercialization's website beginning Sept. 24. Staff from Chicago-based Clean Energy Trust and Purdue Research Foundation will speak about the Student Challenge during a moderated discussion.
 Also scheduled to speak are members of Bearing Analytics, which won the 2013 Indiana Clean Energy Student Challenge and the 2013 Midwest Clean Energy Challenge
. Team member Anurag Garg, a graduate research assistant in the Birck Nanotechnology Center, said winning the competitions has benefited the team's technology.
 "Winning the $100,000 has allowed Bearing Analytics to continue market research, customer development, and additional prototype and production development efforts toward securing the next major round of angel investments," he said.
 "The key takeaways from attending last year's information session were learning about the competition structure and requirements.
" Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization can offer novel energy-related technologies to serve as the basis for the Clean Energy Student Challenge applications.
 Each application must include a brief executive summary, a link to a three-minute investor pitch and a brief résumé of each team member.
 Applications for the Indiana Clean Energy Student Challenge will be accepted through the Clean Energy Exchange and are due Dec. 8.
 An-intent-to-apply submission is encouraged by Oct. 18. The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 Source: Jonathan Gortat, 765-588-3485, jdgortat@prf.org</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue,-other-indiana-college-students-invited-to-sept.-25-callout-for-100,000-contest.html
<Content> Purdue, other Indiana college students invited to Sept. 25 callout for $100,000 contest
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University graduate and undergraduate students in all academic disciplines are invited to a Sept. 25 callout meeting to learn about applying for a U.S.
 Department of Energy-sponsored business creation contest that includes a $100,000 prize. The 2014 Indiana Clean Energy Student Challenge
 kickoff meeting will be 6 p.m. in room 121 of the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, 1201 W. State St. Students from other Indiana colleges and universities can find the information on the Purdue 
Office of Technology Commercialization's website beginning Sept. 24. Staff from Chicago-based Clean Energy Trust and Purdue Research Foundation will speak about the Student Challenge during a moderated discussion.
 Also scheduled to speak are members of Bearing Analytics, which won the 2013 Indiana Clean Energy Student Challenge and the 2013 Midwest Clean Energy Challenge
. Team member Anurag Garg, a graduate research assistant in the Birck Nanotechnology Center, said winning the competitions has benefited the team's technology.
 "Winning the $100,000 has allowed Bearing Analytics to continue market research, customer development, and additional prototype and production development efforts toward securing the next major round of angel investments," he said.
 "The key takeaways from attending last year's information session were learning about the competition structure and requirements.
" Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization can offer novel energy-related technologies to serve as the basis for the Clean Energy Student Challenge applications.
 Each application must include a brief executive summary, a link to a three-minute investor pitch and a brief résumé of each team member.
 Applications for the Indiana Clean Energy Student Challenge will be accepted through the Clean Energy Exchange and are due Dec. 8.
 An-intent-to-apply submission is encouraged by Oct. 18. The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 Source: Jonathan Gortat, 765-588-3485, jdgortat@prf.org</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/purdue,-west-lafayette-to-welcome-students-living-off-campus.html
<Content> Purdue, West Lafayette to welcome students living off campus
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - For the 13th consecutive year, volunteers from Purdue University and the city of West Lafayette will go around the New Chauncey and Northwestern Heights neighborhoods on Tuesday (Aug.
 21) evening to meet students living off campus and welcome them to West Lafayette and Purdue. "This is a wonderful tradition that welcomes students living off campus and shows them they are a valued and vital part of both the Purdue and West Lafayette communities," said Melissa Exum, vice president for student affairs.
 "Our goal is to meet students face-to-face as they move into their new neighborhoods and ease their transition into the community.
" Joe Rust, president of Purdue Student Government, said Meet and Greet is a positive way to kick off the new academic year. "The volunteers and the students benefit equally from this event," Rust said.
 "Lexi Hiland (PSG vice president) and I ran on the idea of 'ONE Purdue' in an effort to bring more unity to campus. Meet and Greet is an important step toward our goal of ONE Purdue.
" Volunteers will meet at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday at the Purdue Visitor Information Center, 504 Northwestern Ave. Each volunteer will get a gold Meet and Greet T-shirt, a street map of the near-campus neighborhoods showing student residences, and door hangers with information about Purdue and West Lafayette that they will leave at each residence they visit, Exum said.
 Volunteers will then divide into small teams and walk around the neighborhoods to make their visits. Meet and Greet is arranged jointly by the Purdue University and West Lafayette Community Partnership teams.
 Exum is chair of the Purdue team and Rust is a member of the group. "The main purpose of the teams is to work together to build on the strong relationship between Purdue and the city of West Lafayette," said Beverly Shaw, chair of the West Lafayette team and marketing and grants administrator for West Lafayette.
 "Those of us already here know that West Lafayette and Purdue are great places to be," Mayor John Dennis said. "We want to share that sense of pride in our community with students who may be new to West Lafayette.
" Meet and Greet is open to any West Lafayette resident and Purdue community member who wants to volunteer. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue--pearson-partner-to-include-online-writing-lab-in-new-mobile-learning-resource.html
<Content> Purdue and Pearson partner to include Online Writing Lab in new mobile learning resource
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Purdue University's Online Writing Lab will be included in a Pearson mobile writing resource designed for smart phones and tablets through an agreement between Purdue Research Foundation and Pearson.
 The agreement allows the Purdue OWL to be included in Pearson Writer, a complete resource of curated and searchable information and guidance that includes writing, research, and content and project management tools.
 "The Purdue OWL had more than 230 million online hits last year and may be the single most referenced website for writing instruction and information in the world," said Linda Bergmann, director of the Purdue Online Writing Lab and a professor of English.
 "The service assists anyone, anywhere, with instructional writing resources for writing projects such as résumés, research papers and essays, and it offers help with significant writing challenges like learning English as a second language program and using correct English grammar.
" The Purdue OWL, which is part of the Purdue College of Liberal Arts, houses writing resources and instructional material as a free service to the public.
 The agreement with Pearson does not affect current access to Purdue OWL, which will continue to be made available freely for non-commercial, personal, educational and training use.
 "According to the Educational Policy Improvement Center, the ability to write is one of the most important skills a student needs for academic success," said Jason Jordan, senior vice president director of digital strategy at Pearson.
 "At the same time, we consistently hear that students doing an online search for writing help quickly become overwhelmed with the multitude of results.
 By incorporating Purdue's outstanding OWL service as part of Pearson Writer we will offer an all-in-one, curated, accessible and personalized mobile resource that provides students with information and guidance on good writing and research fundamentals and managing the writing and research process.
 Pearson Writer includes helpful videos and quizzes, auto-citation, writing review, course trackers, source citing in the MLA, APA and Chicago writing styles, all in one searchable mobile tool.
 Information is kept updated so students can feel confident that the information they receive is current and available 24/7." Pearson Writer is being piloted with more than 10,000 students in about 60 universities across the United States.
 Elizabeth Hart-Wells, assistant vice president for the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization, said the collaboration between Purdue and Pearson will meet the growing need of online educational assistance.
 "Mobile devices are some of the most important educational tools for students and consumers," she said. "This agreement is unique in many ways because it combines the reputation of writing expertise of the Purdue OWL online program, the depth of Pearson educational resources and expertise in personalized learning, and the strength of Purdue's information technology.
" To support an increase in visitors and 24-hour demands, Information Technology at Purdue, or ITaP, has provided a virtual server configuration that hosts the university's OWL data resources alongside Pearson's OWL resources to ensure availability of the information for national and international users.
 "Three-fourths of the world's population already has access to a mobile phone or device, and we are prepared for the 'always-on demand' online needs of a global audience," said Gerry McCartney, Purdue's chief information officer and vice president for information technology.
 "Our future plans are designed for constant upgrades for increased development of tools and resources for mobile devices but also for novel partnerships with industry like the agreement with Pearson.
" Indiana Computer Systems LLC, a Purdue Research Park-based company whose technology is developed through Purdue, is providing software development and consulting services.
 Pearson, the world's leading learning company, has global reach and market-leading businesses in education, business information and consumer publishing (NYSE: PSO).
 Pearson helps people and institutions break through to improved outcomes by providing innovative print and digital education materials, including personalized learning products such as MyLab and Mastering, CourseConnect customizable online courseware, education services including custom publishing, content-independent platforms including the EQUELLA digital repository, and the Pearson LearningStudio online learning platform and OpenClass online learning environment.
 The Online Writing Lab (OWL) at Purdue University develops and houses writing resources and instructional materials, and provides them as a free service of the Writing Lab at Purdue.
 Students, members of the community, and users worldwide will find information to assist with many writing projects. Teachers and trainers may use this material for in-class and out-of-class instruction
. The Purdue Research Foundation is a private, nonprofit foundation created to advance the mission of Purdue University. Established in 1930, the foundation accepts gifts, administers trusts,; funds scholarships and grants, and acquires property on behalf of Purdue.
 The foundation oversees the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization, which operates one of the most comprehensive technology transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 In the 1990s, the foundation was charged with helping the university in the realm of economic development. The foundation oversees the Purdue Research Park, which is the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q1/purdue-ag,-biological-engineering-earns-top-ranking-again.html
<Content> Purdue ag, biological engineering earns top ranking again
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – U.S.News & World Report's ranking of Purdue University's agricultural and biological engineering program as the top graduate specialty in the nation for the fourth consecutive year reflects a commitment to sustained excellence in developing innovators of the future, the program's leader said.
 "Our graduate programs have grown significantly over past seven years or so, with current enrollment nearly doubled," said Bernard Engel, head of the Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering.
 "The ranking confirms the value of graduate studies in our program. It also speaks to the quality of faculty, staff, students and alumni.
" U.S.News & World Report's complete rankings in America's Best Graduate Schools will be available on newsstands April 3. It has published graduate school rankings annually since 1987.
 The magazine in September also rated Purdue's agricultural and biological engineering program as the nation's best undergraduate specialty.
 Engel noted that the university underscored its commitment to students in both agricultural and biological engineering and agricultural systems management with the opening in January of the $4.2 million ADM Agricultural Innovation Center, which offers greater laboratory and classroom opportunities for students.
 Archer Daniels Midland Co. was Purdue's primary partner in the center's construction. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-ag-students-to-get-advice-from-entrepreneurs.html
<Content> Purdue ag students to get advice from entrepreneurs
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University agriculture students will learn what it takes to start their own business Thursday (Nov.
 7) when they hear the stories of alumni who became successful entrepreneurs themselves. Daylong interaction with business owners who are 
College of Agriculture alumni culminate with presentations from five speakers on the topic of "Life Lessons from an Entrepreneur" in Deans Auditorium of Pfendler Hall on the West Lafayette campus.
 The event, which starts at 6 p.m. and is open to the public, extends to the entire college an Entrepreneurship Day the Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering
 held last year. "Entrepreneurship Day provides our students the chance to meet and learn from a very creative group of people who have launched and managed various types of businesses," said 
Jay Akridge, Glenn W. Sample Dean of Purdue Agriculture. "Hopefully, this will inspire some of these students to become the next generation of agricultural entrepreneurs.
" After a welcome by Akridge and opening presentations by Indiana Lt. Gov. Sue Ellspermann and Dan Hasler, president of Purdue Research Foundation
, the five alumni each will speak for 15 minutes. They are: * Barbara Cohen, founder and CSO of Arex Life Sciences Inc. of Boston, representing the biochemistry department.
 * Malcolm DeKryger, president of Belstra Milling Co. Inc. of DeMotte, Ind., representing animal sciences. * Kim (Schwarzkopf) DeWees, founder of Vision Ag Inc.
 of Rensselaer, Ind., representing agricultural economics. * Johann (Joe) Garwood, co-founder and managing member of Fulcrum Exploration
 of Dallas, representing agricultural and biological engineering. * Mona Baker Wolf, president and founder of The Wolf Group of Cincinnati, representing food science.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-ag-to-receive-major-funding-for-plant-sciences.html
<Content> Purdue Ag to receive major funding for plant sciences
 Ben Hall, a Purdue graduate student in agronomy, collects leaf reflectance data in a soybean field at Purdue's Agronomy Center for Research and Education.
 Hall was collecting data to determine variation in nitrogen content in the plants' leaves. Sensor technology has proven to be a precise and efficient method for phenotyping breeding populations.
 (Purdue Agricultural Communication photo/Tom Campbell) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue's College of Agriculture will receive more than $20 million in university funding for plant sciences research and education to strengthen Purdue's leadership in developing new and novel ways to help feed a rapidly growing world population.
 The plant sciences initiative, announced by President Mitch Daniels on Thursday (Sept. 12) during a President's Forum, is among 10 targeted programs designed to enhance research and educational opportunities for students and broaden Purdue's global impact.
 "One of the critical questions we face is how to feed a growing world population," Daniels said. "This initiative can lead to answers to that question by helping to produce plants that have higher yields and can grow in a variety of environmental conditions.
" The College of Agriculture plans to add 10 new faculty positions, some new facilities and remodeling of existing facilities, and programmatic support for research and student recruitment and education.
 The investment will dramatically expand Purdue's capabilities in plant sciences, helping the university to move discoveries from the laboratory to commercialization or to the farm in innovative ways, said Jay Akridge, Glenn W.
 Sample Dean of Agriculture. "In addition, we will be embedding educational opportunities for students throughout this process of discovery and innovation, creating a unique learning opportunity for the next generation of leaders in the plant sciences," Akridge said.
 Gebisa Ejeta, distinguished professor of agronomy and 2009 World Food Prize laureate, said the funding reflects Purdue's leadership role in working to find ways to feed a world population expected to increase from about 7 billion now to 9 billion by 2050.
 "Science, technology and innovation are key to feeding humanity sustainably," Ejeta said. "With this investment, Purdue University is making a commitment to the future of agriculture in Indiana and beyond and showing the collective resolve that we all share at this institution to remain among the very top tier of leading universities in the world.
" The plant sciences investment will be divided into these main areas, with student engagement a fundamental part of each: * Expanding research and education in plant biology through 10 new faculty hires that would be affiliated with a new Center for Molecular Agriculture.
 * Enhancing the college's ability to move research discoveries into commercially important crops with development of a plant transformation facility, which will bridge a gap between identification of valuable genes in crop production and their commercialization.
 * Building high-speed, large-scale capabilities to assess crop characteristics and performance through automated field phenotyping that will provide for detailed assessments of plant traits that are important for both research and commercialization.
 * Establishing a plant commercialization incubator facility to create opportunities for plant sciences faculty and students to move their ideas to the farm and the marketplace through commercialization and licensing arrangements.
 * Developing student leaders in the plant sciences through a precollege summer institute to help attract students to the area, research and experiential learning activities throughout the curriculum, and engagement in licensing and commercialization.
 The university initiatives were developed over several months of work that involved deans, faculty and others at the university.
 The university's trustees have reviewed and given support for the programs. "This investment in the plant science research and education pipeline will catapult Purdue's efforts to enable faculty and students to translate their creativity into new products to help feed a hungry world," said Karen Plaut, senior associate dean for research and faculty affairs.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-alumnus-to-discuss-newspaper-evolution,-digital-age.html
<Content> Purdue alumnus to discuss newspaper evolution, digital age
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Joey Marburger, a Purdue alumnus and the director of Digital Products and Design at the Washington Post, will speak at the university on Oct.
 30 about the digital evolution of the newspaper industry. The talk, titled "Transforming Media: In the Trenches of the Digital Revolution," is free and open to the public, and begins at 5:30 p.m.
 in Stewart Center's Fowler Hall. Marburger's talk is part of the Communication Innovators series by the Purdue Institute for Civic Communication, PICC.
 The forum will be preceded by a reception, 3-5 p.m., open to the public at the Purdue Memorial Union, Room 118. Light refreshments will be served.
 "This is an exciting time for news media with more digital demands from consumers, and as the industry balances information and making a profit," said Ambassador Carolyn Curiel, the founder and executive director of PICC.
 The event will be live streamed at http://www.kaltura.com/tiny/s9o5c. The event will be interactive with live audience polling and opportunities to ask questions at microphones or via Twitter (@PurdueICC).
 Two students, Kirsten Gibson, special projects editor for the Purdue Exponent and a senior majoring in Spanish and linguistics, and Christopher Doty, a senior in political science, will moderate discussion with the audience.
 Marburger graduated in 2007 from Purdue where he studied professional writing and creative writing, and had minors in communication and computer science.
 He also has worked at The Times of Northwest Indiana, Indianapolis Star, and Gannett Co. At the Washington Post, he created the app for iPad and other digital innovations that are expected to figure in plans for creating profitability under the new owner, Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon, Curiel said.
 PICC is a university-wide initiative based in the Brian Lamb School of Communication, which is housed in the College of Liberal Arts
. It is made possible by a grant from the nonprofit Bill Daniels Fund of Colorado. Since 2010, the program has helped students to sharpen critical thinking and communication skills and to build professional networks.
 The students interact with historians, government officials, journalists, media executives, issues experts and successful practitioners in their fields of interest via video links in class, in forums the students produce on campus and during off-campus classes.
 So far, 54 students from fields as varied as communication and nuclear engineering have been selected to participate in the program's annual class in Washington D.C.
 in May. Participation in PICC is voluntary for students outside of classes taught by Curiel, who is a clinical professor in the Brian Lamb School of Communication, and who formerly served as a senior White House aide and a U.S.
 Ambassador. Source: Carolyn Curiel, curiel@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-anthropologist-selected-for-2015-race-across-usa-to-combine-3,000-mile-run-with-research.html
<Content> Purdue anthropologist selected for 2015 Race Across USA to combine 3,000-mile run with research
 Bryce Carlson, a Purdue University assistant professor of anthropology, who studies primate ecology and nutrition in human evolution, is one of 10 runners selected for the 2015 Race Across USA.
 Carlson also will lead the event's various research projects, including evaluation of a program designed to promote childhood activity as well as the biological and behavioral responses to extreme physical activity.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A Purdue University anthropologist who studies primate ecology and nutrition in human evolution is one of 10 runners selected for the 2015 
Race Across USA, and he also will lead the event's various research projects including evaluation of a program designed to promote childhood activity as well as the biological and behavioral responses to extreme physical activity.
 Bryce Carlson has been named research director for the event, which is sponsored by the 100 Mile Club program. Starting in Huntington Beach, Calif.
, on Jan. 16, 2015, the 10 runners will run 26.2 miles per day from California to Maryland. The entire journey is about 3,000 miles or the equivalent of running 115 marathons.
 The race will cover 140 days, and the runners will have days off for muscle recovery and to visit area schools to promote the 100 Mile Club
 program. The goal of Race Across USA is to raise money and awareness for childhood activity and encourage schools to sign up for the 100 Mile Club program, which supports opportunities to run or walk 100 miles at school each year.
 "The Race Across USA is an incredible and rare research opportunity to study how a group of athletes cope with the cumulative stress of long distance running," said Carlson, an assistant professor of anthropology.
 "As an anthropologist and runner, I'm absolutely over the moon about getting to participate in such an epic adventure that simultaneously contributes to our understanding of human biology, biocultural adaptation and the power of the human spirit.
" Carlson will coordinate data collection and the various research teams participating in the 2015 event. The research program is in development and will be influenced by funding sources and collaborating scientists from Purdue and other universities.
 At this time the research objectives include studying childhood activity and the effectiveness of the 100 Mile Club program; sports medicine topics, such as the impact on runners' joints, and other health risks associated with the cumulative stress of high mileage running; as well as a number of biological and behavioral adaptations over the course of the event including running biomechanics, muscular adaptation, energetics and body composition changes, nutrition, social and psychological coping mechanisms, and strategies for rest and recovery.
 Carlson, who specifically studies the dietary environment of wild chimpanzees and mountain gorillas, will be on leave from the Department of Anthropology
 during the spring semester 2015. He is a member of Purdue's Ingestive Behavior Research Center. Participants will run in California, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia and Maryland.
 They also will stop at the White House in Washington, D.C., on day 139 of the 140-day event. Carlson, who applied for a runner's slot for Race Across USA, recently placed fourth in the Midwest Grand Slam of Ultrarunning, which is composed of four 100-mile trail races.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/purdue-apps-aiding-law-enforcement,-public-safety-agencies.html
<Content> Purdue apps aiding law enforcement, public safety agencies
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Public safety and homeland security agencies are adopting tools developed by a Purdue-led center to help officials manage emergency response and allocate resources efficiently, sometimes using smart phones or other portable electronic devices.
 The U.S. Coast Guard has used one of the tools to see how hypothetical station closures around the Great Lakes would impact response time, public safety and property loss while highlighting which regions would be exposed to greater risk.
 The system, which has now been adopted nationwide by the agency, allows for a thorough assessment of search-and-rescue operations at each Coast Guard station, said David Ebert, Purdue's Silicon Valley Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and director of the Purdue-led center Visual Analytics for Command, Control and Interoperability Environments, or 
VACCINE. Another tool, called MERGE, for Mobile Emergency Response Guidebook, is being tested by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration to evaluate potential hazardous materials dangers on trains.
 Using the MERGE system, the user shoots a picture of hazardous materials placards or signs that are displayed on vehicles or buildings.
 The system then identifies the hazardous materials present based on the images and displays the appropriate response protocol and evacuation perimeters.
 Federal, regional and state officials will meet during an annual VACCINE conference on Sept. 20 at Purdue to discuss subjects including the VACCINE-developed tools, maritime safety, public safety, social media, security checkpoints and the high volume of traffic passing through airport terminals.
 A keynote talk will be given by Vice Admiral Robert C. Parker, commander of the U.S. Coast Guard Atlantic Area. VACCINE is a U.S.
 Department of Homeland Security Center of Excellence, and Parker will talk about the value of the centers of excellence and how they can help the Coast Guard and first responders face challenges in today's data-driven society.
 The conference, 8:30 a.m. to 3:45 p.m. in Lawson Hall, Room 1142, will draw participants from the Coast Guard, TSA, Purdue, the Indianapolis Police Department, and homeland security and public safety agencies from Indiana, Ohio and North Carolina.
 The meeting is open to the public and is free, with registration from 8 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. An official from the Indianapolis Police Department will talk about the agency's use of a VACCINE-developed application that allows officers to use cell phones and other portable devices to translate the meaning of gang graffiti.
 GARI, for Gang Graffiti Automatic Recognition and Interpretation, and MERGE use "lightweight algorithms" that operate quickly, have low-energy consumption and require low memory.
 The meeting will include speakers and panelists addressing topics such as the use of visual analytics and technology in public safety and other specialized areas.
 Representatives from VACCINE partner institutions will share information on specific research projects taking place within their organizations during the past year.
 "We will also feature demonstrations of tools and technologies developed by VACCINE and a poster session of research projects being conducted by current graduate students in our Homeland Security Career Development Program," Ebert said.
 More information about the VACCINE Annual Meeting is available by contacting Deb Denno at ddenno@purdue.edu. VACCINE is funded by the U.S.
 Department of Homeland Security Science & Technology Directorate.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/purdue-band-members-to-fly-worlds-largest-drum-into-largest-lake.html
<Content> Purdue band members to fly world's largest drum into Lake Michigan
 A team of Purdue band members is building a full-size replica of the World's Largest Drum that will fly into Lake Michigan on Sept.
 8 as part of Red Bull Flugtag 2012. The craft was designed by aeronautical engineering student Chris Yamamoto. (Photo provided by Chris Yamamoto)
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Members of Purdue University's "All-American" Marching Band are building a new version of the World's Largest Drum that will fly over, and into, Lake Michigan.
 The "Droppin the Bass" glider will be launched off a four-story lakefront platform in Chicago on Sept. 8 when it competes in a Red Bull Flugtag
. Team captain Chris Yamamoto, a senior in aeronautical engineering from Cortland, New York, says the big drum design was a natural theme because of how iconic it is throughout the Big Ten conference and beyond.
 "Purdue students have a long history of pushing the frontiers of flight," Yamamoto said. "None is more well known than Purdue band alumnus Neil Armstrong.
 Of course, he flew farther than we will." Yamamoto also will pilot the craft. As a freshman he served as chief engineer for a smaller team that launched a "Speed Train" version of the Boilermaker Special into a second-place finish at the 2010 Flugtag in Miami, just three feet behind a top team of NASA engineers from nearby Cape Canaveral.
 "I hope to use that experience and my now-increased aerospace engineering education to propel us to victory," Yamamoto said. "Of course, my thrust is completely dependent on the muscles of bandmates.
 Unfortunately, all of the football players are busy that day pushing people around at Notre Dame." Successful Flugtag teams typically provide the crowd with a high-energy song and dance routine before launching their craft into the drink.
 Yamamoto says his team’s inherent musicality will help. "We entertained an entire nation at the head of the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade," Yamamoto said.
 "We can handle this crowd." Team Droppin the Base includes Heather Robinson of Gary, Ind.; Zach Haley of New Washington, Ind., Alex McHolick of Houston; and Ben Kuttecsh of Brentwood, Tenn.
 The team will be feverishly building its big, winged drum every day through Sept. 5. Volunteer opportunities still exist. The finished craft will be displayed outside the Neon Cactus, the team’s sponsor, at 360 Brown Street in West Lafayette, IN, at approximately 7 p.m.
 on Thursday (Sept. 6). The team departs West Lafayette at approximately 4 p.m. Friday (Sept. 7). Note to Journalists: For broadcast-quality video and photos, contact Jim Schenke, Purdue News Service, 765-237-7296 or 
jschenke@purdue.edu. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/purdue-black-cultural-centers-annual-cultural-arts-festival-friday.html
<Content> Purdue Black Cultural Center's annual Cultural Arts Festival Friday
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The Purdue University Black Cultural Arts Center's fall programming will culminate Friday (Nov. 30) with the annual Cultural Arts Festival at Loeb Playhouse.
 Tickets for the 7 p.m. show are $5 for students and $7 for the public and are available at Loeb Box office in Stewart Center (765-494-3933).
 The BCC's Performing Arts Ensembles will celebrate the history, culture and art of Detroit, the theme of the center's Fall Cultural Arts Series.
 The series has focused on the contributions Detroit has made to the African-American experience and the role it played in the creation of the American middle class.
 "Musical and artistic creativity, as well as stories of the passionate struggle of identity and quality in the city, fuel this year's festival," said Twana A.
 Harris, BCC artist in residence and festival director. "It is a story about migration. It is a story of movement from Africa to America, from Detroit (midnight) to Dawn (Canada), from bondage to freedom, from Motown to techno.
 Our show has it all." The festival will feature original poems and monologues from the Haraka Writers and New Directional Players, vocal music from the Motown era by the Black Voices of Inspiration and dances by the Jahari Dance Troupe.
 Sources: William P. Caise, assistant director of the Black Cultural Center, 765-494-4630, wcaise@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/purdue-brings-peer-institutions-together-for-future-graduate-students.html
<Content> Purdue brings peer institutions together for future graduate students
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Students from throughout the United States who are interested in graduate school will converge on the Purdue University campus Sept.
 23 and 24 for the Big Ten+ Graduate School Exposition. The event, now in its ninth year, is a cooperative effort to provide students with information about graduate education and will feature several activities.
 Students interested in pursuing graduate study in science, technology, engineering, mathematics and related disciplines will have a chance to talk to faculty and students from more than 50 institutions of higher education.
 Workshops on funding graduate study, applying to graduate school, and careers in related fields also will be presented. A dessert reception with recruiters from some of the nation's top institutions also will take place.
 "This is a wonderful opportunity for students to obtain comprehensive information about graduate education and research opportunities at a variety of graduate institutions," said Janet Beagle, associate director of graduate student recruitment services at Purdue.
 "By attending the Expo, students can talk to professors, current graduate students and staff about graduate school and what steps are necessary to set them on the path they choose.
" Student registration is $35 in advance and $40 at the door, and travel scholarships are available to help cover travel expenses.
 Advance registration and more information about the event are available online at http://www.purdue.edu/gradexpo Other institutions that will join Purdue representatives include: Columbia University; Cornell University; Duke University; The George Washington University; Indiana University; Iowa State University; Kansas State University; Michigan State University; Michigan Technological University; Princeton University; Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; Rochester Institute of Technology; Texas A&M University; schools from the University of California system; University of Illinois; University of Michigan; University of Nebraska, Lincoln; University of Wisconsin; Vanderbilt University; Yale University; and many more.
 Each institution will have one or more representatives at the Graduate School Fair portion of the Expo. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-builds-nations-fastest-campus-supercomputeragain.html
<Content> Purdue builds nation's fastest campus supercomputer—again
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - For the third year in a row, Purdue University has confirmed its lead in the rarified realm of supercomputing by unveiling Conte, the nation's fastest university-owned supercomputer, developed in a collaboration with HP, Intel, and Mellanox.
 Conte is the highest-ranking campus supercomputer on the June 2013 Top500.org list of international supercomputers. Purdue's latest supercomputer surpasses the nation's previous fastest university-owned leading machine, Carter, which was built in 2011 and is still in operation at Purdue.
 "We don't do this only to be at the top of a list, although it's nice to have an external measure of our success in delivering the most effective computational tools to our researchers" says Gerry McCartney, vice president for information technology, CIO, and Oesterle Professor of IT.
 "The reason we do this is because our faculty have a constantly growing need for more and faster computational resources." Conte clocked in with a sustained, measured maximum speed of 943.38 teraflops and a peak performance of 1.342 petaflops.
 To give an idea of how fast that is, Conte would process a problem 15,000 times faster than a 15-inch Apple MacBook Pro, a high-end consumer laptop.
 Conte was built with 580 HP ProLiant SL250 Generation 8 (Gen8) servers, each incorporating two Intel Xeon processors and two Intel Xeon Phi coprocessors, integrated with Mellanox 56Gb/S FDR InfiniBand.
 Purdue names each of its supercomputers after a faculty member, staff member, or alumnus who made a significant contribution to computing at the university.
 The 2013 supercomputer is named for Samuel Conte, who helped establish the nation's first computer science program at Purdue in 1962 and served as department head for 17 years.
 Supercomputers, like college football teams, have national rankings. But unlike the disputable college rankings, supercomputers are ranked according to a standardized benchmarking test and then ranked by the nonprofit organization Top500.org.
 The rankings include supercomputers owned by governments, corporations, research centers and universities. The results of the test are published twice each year in June and November on the organization's website, 
http://www.Top500.org The top 10 university-owned supercomputers in the United States and their rankings on the June 2013 list are:
 "I'm afraid our campus has become a bit blasé about having the nation's largest campus supercomputer," McCartney says. "I think some people on campus have come to expect it.
" One person who is excited about Purdue's computing resources is Joseph Francisco, the university's William E. Moore Professor of Physical Chemistry and former national president of the American Chemical Society.
 Francisco conducts research on atmospheric gasses that contribute to global warming, and he attributes at least part of his success to the computing resources at Purdue.
 "The more of those interactions you account for in your calculations the closer it gets you to the real interactions in the atmosphere," Francisco says.
 "What we're able to do with Purdue's community clusters is really push the envelope." Francisco's ability to push the envelope of research contributed to his being elected to the National Academy of Sciences, one of the highest honors given to a scientist or engineer in the United States.
 "I wouldn't have been elected to the National Academy of Sciences without these clusters," Francisco says. "Having the clusters, we were able to set a very high standard that led a lot of people around the world to use our work as a benchmark, which is the kind of thing that gets the attention of the National Academy.
" In addition to Francisco's work on atmospheric chemistry, other research that will be done on Conte includes: —Jeff Greeley, associate professor of chemical engineering, is working to make batteries smaller, lighter and longer-lasting through atom-scale models.
 —Greg Blaisdell, professor of aeronautics and astronautics, is working to make jets quieter by modeling the exhaust flow using as many as one billion data points.
 —Gerhard Klimeck, professor of electrical and computer engineering, is creating atom-scale models of future computer processor components and their quantum interactions.
 —Michael Baldwin, associate professor of earth, atmospheric and planetary sciences, is developing high-resolution weather forecast models.
 —Wen Jiang, associate professor of biology, is determining the structure of viruses at the atomic level and is developing high-resolution images of the actual viruses.
 "The high performance computing is key," Jiang says. "I can't imagine what we would do without these large clusters." Conte is different from previous Purdue cluster-type supercomputers because of its heavy use of parallel processing conducted by the Intel Xenon Phi coprocessors.
 Conte has 580 servers (570 at the time of testing) with 9,120 standard cores and 68,400 Phi cores, for a total of 77,520 cores. 
By comparison, the four other supercomputers also in operation at Purdue have a combined 46,152 cores. McCartney says Purdue staff worked closely with two of the university's "Foundational IT Partners" - Intel and Hewlett-Packard - to develop Conte.
 "The work that these companies have done has been exceptional, but what really struck me was the commitment by both companies to help us develop top resources for our science and engineering faculty," McCartney says.
 Conte was built at a cost of $4.6 million, of which $2 million will come from faculty members contributing a portion of their federal research funding through the university's "community cluster" program.
 • May 2008: Steele, 26.8 teraflops sustained measured maximum speed, 67.33 teraflops peak speed </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-center-for-cancer-research-part-of-big-ten-cancer-research-consortium.html
<Content> Purdue Center for Cancer Research part of Big Ten Cancer Research Consortium
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Rivals on the field are uniting in the laboratory to transform cancer research through a collaboration of Big Ten university cancer centers, including the 
Purdue University Center for Cancer Research. "The Big Ten Cancer Research Consortium allows us to more easily work together, tap into each other's expertise and share resources," said Tim Ratliff, the Robert Wallace Miller Director of the Purdue Center for Cancer Research.
 In addition to combining the scientific and clinical expertise of the Big Ten universities, the consortium eases the processes involved in collaborative clinical trials.
 The consortium will establish one internal review board to approve proposed trials, eliminating the need for review and approval from each university's internal review board, Ratliff said.
 "Our goal is to get the best treatments possible to patients as quickly as we can," he said. "A unified internal review board eliminates one of the big roadblocks to collaboration and will shave many months off of the time it takes to start a dual or multi-university clinical trial.
 This will translate into faster approval of new technologies and treatments." The consortium also will share access to tissue specimens obtained during the clinical trials, which are critically needed for cancer research but in short supply, Ratliff said.
 "We want to pull as much information and insight as we possibly can from these valuable specimens," Ratliff said. "With our expertise we can perform additional tests and go beyond whether a potential drug is or is not working and discover why.
 We can find out what is going on in the tissue and in the cells and feed that back into the research." Purdue's strengths in cancer targeting, imaging and technologies to enable personalized medicine fit well with the consortium, Ratliff said.
 "Our researchers have developed technology that shows whether a patient's cancer cells have the appropriate receptor to respond to a therapy, tools to monitor the levels of drugs in the blood and fine tune its administration, as well as tools to monitor the efficacy of a therapy in real time," he said.
 "We also have pioneers in targeting cancer cells and effectively delivering drugs to those cells without harming healthy cells. This consortium will help take those discoveries to the clinic.
" The Purdue Center for Cancer Research is one of seven National Cancer Institute-designated basic-research facilities in the United States.
 Its mission is to discover how cancers develop, progress and respond to treatment and to advance new medicines, diagnostic tools and treatment devices.
 The center currently has 14 drugs in clinical trials. The Big Ten Cancer Research Consortium is made up of the following universities and cancer centers:
 The Indianapolis-based Hoosier Oncology Group will serve as the administrative headquarters for the consortium. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-chemistry-show-creates-slime,-explores-the-chemistry-of-polymers.html
<Content> Purdue Chemistry Show creates 'slime,' explores the chemistry of polymers
 Paul E. Smith, director of lecture demonstrations for Purdue's chemistry department, performs a demonstration during a show. (Purdue University photo/Steven Scherer) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The children's toy "slime" will be created and shared with the audience as one of several demonstrations at the Purdue University Chemistry Show on Oct.
 5. The show, designed to be entertaining and educational for all ages, will focus on polymers - large, chain-like molecules that make super balls bouncy and diapers absorbent, said Paul E.
 Smith, director of lecture demonstrations. The one-hour show begins at 11 a.m. in Wetherill Laboratory of Chemistry, Room 200. The show is free and open to the public.
 In addition to making "slime," demonstrations will include quickly burning flash paper, shrinking plastics, melting packing peanuts with a few drops of acetone, sodium polyacrylate absorbing 60 times its own weight and sticking a needle through a balloon without popping it.
 Audience volunteers will participate in some of the demonstrations.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-college-of-agriculture-names-top-students-for-2012-13.html
<Content> Purdue College of Agriculture names top students for 2012-13
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University's College of Agriculture has honored its top students for the 2012-13 academic year. They are:
 Gabriel Rangel of Indianapolis, Outstanding Senior. Rangel is majoring in biochemistry and has maintained a 4.0 GPA. He is a College of Agriculture Dean's Scholar and was the first student to be named the college's outstanding student each of his four years at Purdue.
 Rangel has worked on cancer and malaria research projects in laboratories at Purdue, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis and the University of Maryland.
 This past summer, Rangel participated in the summer program in biological sciences at the Harvard School of Public Health, where he helped develop an imaging protocol for characterizing morphological changes that occur during maturation of the malaria parasite.
 Rangel received the prestigious Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Howard Hughes Medical Institute Gilliam Fellowship for Advanced Study.
 He was named a Sen. Richard G. Lugar Scholar, Lilly Endowment Community Scholar and National Hispanic Recognition Program Scholar.
 Erin Whittaker of West Lafayette, Outstanding Junior. Whittaker is majoring in quantitative agricultural economics and French and is in the Dean's Scholars program.
 She is involved in the Department of Agricultural Economics Undergraduate Research Program, where she completed a thesis, titled "Grain Market Analysis and Pricing.
" Whittaker participates in the College of Agriculture Leadership Certificate program, represented the College of Agriculture at the 2011 Ag Future of America Leadership Conference in Kansas City and serves as a Purdue Ag Ambassador, Agriculture Council secretary, director of programming for Purdue student government and treasurer for the Return to Agriculture organization.
 Whittaker interned in Washington, D.C., where she researched and wrote key parts of the Egg Products Inspection Act Amendments of 2012 for U.S.
 Sen. Pat Roberts. She will intern with Archer Daniels Midland this summer as a commodity merchandiser. Emily Erickson of Clark's Hill, Ind.
, Outstanding Sophomore. Erickson is majoring in biochemistry and is in the Dean's Scholars program. She has worked with Michael Zanis of Purdue's Department of Botany and Plant Pathology studying adaptive evolution of grasses, and in Karen Plaut's mammary biology lab.
 This summer, Erickson will intern at the National Institutes of Health in the mammary stem cell biology section, where researchers are developing biological models to investigate breast cancer.
 Erickson is a member of the Purdue Philharmonic Orchestra and recently was named principal viola player. She is a member of the American Dairy Goat Association and 4-H and started the Purdue Goat Club.
 She received the Purdue College of Agriculture Award of Excellence, Edwin T. Mertz Scholarship in Biochemistry and Leath Scholarship.
 Erickson's Junior Oberhasli was reserve grand champion at the 2011 North American International Livestock Exposition. Sarah Cox of Chillicothe, Ohio, Outstanding Freshman.
 Cox is majoring in pre-agricultural and biological engineering and pharmaceutical sciences and is a Dean's Scholar. She is active in the Navy ROTC program and is a member of Dingy armed drill team.
 Cox participates in Purdue's Global Engineering Program as a member of the Ecuador Pharmaceutical Transport Team, which is designing carrying cases for laptops that Timmy Global Health will use for keeping medical records in the Amazon.
 In 2012, she was a World Food Prize Wallace-Carver USDA intern in Poplarville, Miss., where she investigated the use of natural plant-derived oil mixtures to combat Crown Rot in strawberries.
 Cox will work this summer as an environmental intern for General Mills in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. She was awarded the Purdue University Presidential and Purdue University Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps scholarships.
 Source: Tim Kerr, Purdue Agriculture Academic Programs, 765-494-8470, kerrtp@purdue.edu Purdue Agriculture Academic Programs </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-college-of-veterinary-medicine-offers-free-eye-exams-for-service-dogs.html
<Content> Purdue College of Veterinary Medicine offers free eye exams for service dogs
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The Purdue University College of Veterinary Medicine will offer free eye exams for certified service dogs on May 6.
 "These dogs are such an important part of their owner's and handler's everyday life that it is critical to make sure the dogs have healthy vision so they can perform their jobs well," said Wendy Townsend, an assistant professor of veterinary ophthalmology.
 "Ophthalmologists are going to be able to help prevent long-term problems because they'll be able to see smaller issues that owners or handlers may not notice until they become big problems.
" To qualify for the free exam, dogs must be certified, actively working or currently enrolled in a formal training program. Types of working dogs that would be eligible include guide dogs, handicapped assistance dogs, and those used by police and fire departments for detection and search and rescue.
 This free service is being offered as part of the sixth annual American College of Veterinary Ophthalmologists (ACVO)/Merial National Service Dog Eye Exam event, during which ACVO ophthalmologists donate their time to provide the screening to qualified service dogs.
 The ACVO is an approved veterinary specialty organization of the American Board of Veterinary Specialists and is recognized by the American Veterinarian Medical Association.
 To schedule an exam, owners must first register online before April 30 by visiting the ACVO/Merial National Service Dog Eye Exam website at 
http://www.acvoeyeexam.org/. Follow the links for "Dog Owners/Participants" and "Registration and Qualifications." Once a dog is registered, the appointment can be scheduled at the Purdue Veterinary Teaching Hospital by calling 765-494-1107.
 The available exam slots will be filled on a first-come basis. The Purdue Veterinary Teaching Hospital is part of the Purdue College of Veterinary Medicine, which was established in 1959.
 The hospital provides services to both large and small animals and is the only veterinary teaching hospital in Indiana. The hospital serves as a full-service veterinary medical referral center, providing specialty services that include, but are not limited to, ophthalmology, internal medicine, surgery, emergency and wellness care.
 Wendy Townsend, 765-494-1107, townsenw@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/purdue-college-of-veterinary-medicines-priority-4-paws-to-benefit-animal-shelters,-students.html
<Content> Purdue College of Veterinary Medicine's Priority 4 Paws to benefit animal shelters, students
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's College of Veterinary Medicine is ready to roll out Priority 4 Paws, a program featuring a mobile surgery unit that will be taken to animal shelters to spay and neuter shelter pets up for adoption.
 The program, scheduled to begin July 30 when the mobile unit will go out for the first time, also will help train veterinary medicine students, said Lyn Freeman, a veterinarian and associate professor of veterinary clinical sciences.
 "The program has three goals. One is to provide care for the shelters," said Freeman, who also is the program's coordinator. "We hope to do 5,000 or more surgeries a year and that those animals will be adopted by new owners who will bring the pets to local veterinarians for future medical care.
 The second goal is to provide practical surgical experience for our students. "Lastly, we want to instill in the students a philanthropic spirit so that when they graduate they will want to help animal shelters wherever they work.
" Donors for the mobile surgery unit include PetSmart Charities, the Tony Stewart Foundation, the Ryan Newman Foundation, Midmark, Purdue University and LifeLine Mobile.
 "Priority 4 Paws is a ground-breaking initiative that furthers our commitment to shelter medicine by enhancing our ability to help animal shelters in Indiana," said Willie M.
 Reed, a veterinarian and dean of the Purdue University College of Veterinary Medicine. "As Indiana's only college of veterinary medicine, we are excited to launch this program to provide needed spay and neuter surgeries for shelter animals while also improving educational opportunities for our students.
" Fourth-year veterinary medicine students will have the opportunity to choose a three-week elective rotation in shelter medicine and surgery.
 They will work two weeks in the mobile unit and then one week in a shelter, Freeman said. There will be two to four students in the unit at any one time.
 Nancy Ferguson, a veterinarian and small animal shelter medicine clinician hired by Purdue's veterinary medical teaching hospital, will work with the students.
 "Our best resource is the enthusiasm of the students for what we're going to do," Ferguson said. Ferguson and Carrie McCoy, a Purdue veterinary technician working with the program, will travel to shelters with the students four days a week, Freeman said.
 Each shelter will provide a list of patients and will bring them to the mobile unit, where the surgeries will be performed. People at the shelters will be trained on handling the recovery.
 The unit will stay within approximately 115 miles of West Lafayette, at least at the beginning of the program. "We held an open house in February and shelter representatives came to find out more about the program," Ferguson said.
 "They filled out questionnaires and based on those and visits to the shelters, we selected the initial 11 shelters we're working with.
" Freeman and Ferguson have worked closely with Annette Litster, a veterinarian and assistant professor of small animal medicine, in setting up the program.
 "She is the director of the Maddie's Shelter Medicine Program in the college, which helps educate and train students about shelter medicine and the needs of shelter animals," Freeman said.
 "This program helps build excitement and passion for ending pet homelessness." Freeman and Ferguson said Purdue will be one of just five universities with a mobile unit program.
 The others are the University of North Carolina, Louisiana State University, Mississippi State University and Western University of Health Sciences in California.
 The man who helped start one of those, Philip Bushby, a veterinarian and the Marcia Lane Endowed Professor of Humane Ethics and Animal Welfare at Mississippi State, assisted Purdue's efforts.
 "Dr. Bushby inspired us to begin the project and helped us all along the way," Freeman said. "He got us started and helped us all along the way.
 He's been a great mentor." Kevin Doerr, director of alumni relations and public affairs for College of Veterinary Medicine, 765-494-8216, 
doerrkr@purdue.edu Becky Hershey, director of development for College of Veterinary Medicine, 765-494-5032, bhershey@purdue.edu Note to Journalists
: Reporters and photographers are invited to attend an event on Friday (July 27) at the College of Veterinary Medicine where the Priority 4 Paws mobile unit will be on display.
 Those interested in attending are asked to call Kevin Doerr, director of alumni relations and public affairs for the college, at 765-494-8216 or Greg McClure, Purdue News Service, at 765-496-9711.
 Media unable to attend the July 27 event who want to do a story should contact Doerr or Dr. Lyn Freeman, 765-494-0339, ljfreema@purdue.edu
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-commercialization-assistant-vice-president-to-testify-before-congressional-committee-on-technology-transfer.html
<Content> Purdue commercialization assistant vice president to testify before congressional committee on technology transfer
 Purdue commercialization assistant vice president to testify before congressional committee on technology transfer WASHINGTON - The director of the 
Purdue Office of Technology and Commercialization (OTC) on Wednesday (July 24) will testify before a congressional panel examining ways to improve technology transfer at universities, research institutes and national laboratories.
 Elizabeth "Libby" Hart-Wells, assistant vice president for research and associate director of the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship
 at Purdue, will highlight innovative practices that Purdue has instituted for leveraging its federally funded research projects.
 The Committee on Science, Space, and Technology's Subcommittee on Research & Technology will take testimony from 2-4 p.m. Scheduled to testify are Brian R.
 Wamhoff, vice president of research & development and co-founder of HemoShear LLC; Erik Lium, assistant vice chancellor of the Office of Innovation, Technology & Alliances at the University of California, San Francisco; and Hart-Wells.
 Members of the subcommittee of the U.S. House of Representatives are considering amendments to the existing Transfer of Federally Funded Research and Technology Act of 2013.
 The public hearing is in the 2318 Rayburn House Office Building. "Universities engage in fundamental research to grow our knowledge base, to advance understanding, and to encourage free thinking in our next generations," Hart-Wells said.
 "Inherent to exploration of uncharted areas of inquiry is discovery. Discovery can and should lead to delivery. Gaps in the path that connects discovery to delivery exist, however.
 "In my reading of its current draft, it is the filling of this gap that is, provincially defined, the subject of the proposed legislation.
" * Incentives for student inventors: Purdue's new intellectual property policy will grant students full property rights to inventions developed through a course with resources broadly available for the course.
 * Fast track for new inventors: The Purdue Research Foundation and the OTC offer first-time Purdue inventors a fast track to commercialization including an express startup license that provides a quicker and more transparent licensing for Purdue's inventive entrepreneurs.
 * New hub offers services to enhance commercialization: The Purdue Foundry plans to double Purdue's successful technology-based startups over the next two years by offering service ranging from help with grant writing to connecting with alumni.
 In her role at Purdue, Hart-Wells manages the commercialization of Purdue's intellectual property assets, which includes evaluating innovations, developing commercialization strategies and drafting commercialization agreements.
 In 2012, the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization reported 356 invention disclosures, 77 commercialization licenses and deals, acquired 54 issued U.S.
 patents and reported the creation of five startups from Purdue discoveries. For information about the Purdue innovations, contact Cynthia Sequin, 765-588-3340, 
casequin@prf.org. The Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, through its sponsored initiatives and partnerships - including the Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Technology Realization Program, Entrepreneurial Leadership Academy and business plan competitions - aims to stimulate entrepreneurship at Purdue and serves as a state, regional and national resource.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-conference-helps-minority-business-owners-network.html
<Content> Purdue conference helps minority business owners network
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.— Purdue University's Office of Supplier Diversity Development, in partnership with the Supplier Diversity Development Coalition of Greater Lafayette, will host the annual Relationships to Partnerships Sessions on Nov.
 15 to help minority and women business owners in Indiana connect with other businesses. The daylong conference, themed "Growing Your Business Could be Dangerous," will start at 8 a.m.
 in Stewart Center and will feature Marie Johns as the luncheon keynote speaker. Johns is the former deputy administrator of the U.S.
 Small Business Administration. "We chose the theme because there is not enough discussion about growing businesses, especially about growing them too fast, which can be more dangerous than having no customers at all," said Jesse L.
 Moore Jr., director of Purdue's Office of Supplier Diversity Development. "We'll have panelists who have managed their growth successfully and can share their experience with attendees.
" Moore said it's rewarding that this is the ninth year for Relationship to Partnership sessions, which allows attendees to meet with a large range of buyers.
 "I think the key decision was in 2007 when we expanded from an event that only buyers at Purdue attended to include members of the Supplier Diversity Coalition of Greater Lafayette," he said.
 "Once we expanded, you not only had connections with Purdue but you also got to talk with businesses from around the state and the nation.
" Over the years, Relationships to Partnerships has helped minority- and women-owned businesses meet clients such as Freitag-Weinhardt, State Farm Insurance, Caterpillar, Tate & Lyle, Ivy Tech Community College, Eli Lilly and Co.
, Kirby Risk, IU Health, Fifth Third Bank, Oerlikon Fairfield, Nanshan and Alcoa. "Relationships with minority and women-owned businesses are very important to the operating procedures at Kettelhut Construction, Inc.
," said Steve Habben, president of Kettelhut Construction in Lafayette, Ind. "Many of these relationships have been fostered at Purdue's annual Relationships to Partnerships Sessions.
" Sahara Williams, president of Enginuity Engineering + Management in Indianapolis, said the conference has benefited her company.
 "The event is a great way to meet decision-makers, not just from Purdue but from other area businesses as well," she said. "We’re just trying to help our community become more diverse," Moore said.
 "These companies understand the changing demographics of our country and are responding to those changes. Our community is changing.
 We hope that these companies, as they grow, take a look at Lafayette. We want them to think about Lafayette as they grow." This year, the plenary session is from 8-9:30 a.m.
 in Stewart Center, Room 218. Three concurrent sessions take place from 9:45-11 a.m. in Stewart Center. Session I, which is on construction, A/E and related services, will take place in Room 206.
 Session 2, which is on marketing, and computer and IT services, will be in Room 214 AB. Session 3, which is on products, goods and professional services other than A/E, is in Room 214 CD.
 The sessions will be followed by an awards luncheon from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in Purdue Memorial Union's North Ballroom. Those interested in attending this year's event can register online at 
http://www.conf.purdue.edu/R2P9 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-confers-degrees-following-fall-semester.html
<Content> Fall semester degrees and student honors for academic achievements
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University awarded about 3,300 degrees to students following the fall semester. WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - About 14,800 Purdue University students earned academic honors for the fall 2012 semester. To earn honors, students must have had at least a 3.5 semester or cumulative grade point average on a four-point scale.
 Note to Journalists: Information about recent graduates and honor students from your coverage area is available at http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/students/gradhonors.html
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-continues-7-year-trend-of-attracting-high-quality-students.html
<Content> Purdue continues 7-year trend of attracting high-quality students
 First-year Purdue students are participating in the university's 2013 orientation program, Boiler Gold Rush. For the seventh year, the quality of Purdue's first-year class has risen, which continues to have a positive impact on the university's retention and graduation rates as well as overall student success.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - This is the seventh consecutive year the quality of Purdue's first-year class has risen, which continues to have a positive impact on the university's retention and graduation rates as well as overall student success.
 Purdue also saw its largest number of undergraduate applications - 30,955 - and its yield is up overall, meaning a greater percentage of the students who are admitted to Purdue are choosing Purdue.
 In addition, the number of admitted Indiana students choosing Purdue is up from 58.4 percent last year to 59.2 percent this year.
 "Top students, from Indiana and across the world, are coming to Purdue because of the university's well-known academic programs and its affordability," said university President Mitch Daniels.
 "Campus-wide recruiting efforts and providing a range of student resources for those who are willing to work hard to succeed also contribute to the quality of our new students.
 Students and their parents know Purdue is a good investment. We're proud to say that once again Purdue's freshman class has raised the bar in terms of academic quality.
" Daniels and many college deans spent their evenings last spring calling Indiana high school seniors who received some of Purdue's top scholarship awards to congratulate and encourage them to choose Purdue.
 Current students also reach out to prospective students to answer specific questions about academic programs. The 6,283 first-year students include 3,453 Indiana residents, 1,852 U.S.
 nonresidents and 978 international students. The academic credentials of the first-year class represent all-time highs in test scores and grade point averages, and the largest jump in SAT scores in eight years.
 The class average SAT scores increased by 24 points to a combined 1773 on the critical reading, math and writing sections. This follows an increase of 18 points last year and 14 points in 2011.
 The average ACT score increased to 27.2 from 26.9 last year. The average high school grade point average of the freshman class is 3.70, which is up from 3.66 in 2012.
 "Better prepared students combined with well-designed student success programs ensure that more of our students complete their degrees," said Timothy Sands, executive vice president for academic affairs and provost.
 "By increasing our expectations of incoming students, we raise the aspirations of Indiana K-12 students, retain more Indiana talent, and attract more well-prepared students to Indiana from the U.S.
 and around the world. "High-achieving students also are interested in Purdue because of the new Honors College and its mission of supporting academic excellence through opportunities in residential learning experiences and exposure to cross-disciplinary problem solving.
" The college was approved by Purdue trustees in 2011 and welcomed its first class of 556 this year. Total enrollment, which is 468 fewer than last year, also reflects Purdue's goal to shift its total student population to 29,000-30,000 undergraduates and more than 9,000 graduate students.
 "We are achieving our multi-year plan to optimize the alignment of undergraduate enrollment with our physical plant and academic resources, while at the same time gradually increasing graduate student enrollment," said Pamela T.
 Horne, associate vice provost for enrollment management and dean of admissions. "Ensuring opportunity and access to campus programs and services is critical to support the students who have worked hard to earn their place at Purdue and who are on track for success.
" Purdue also saw record numbers for its retention and graduation rates. The first-year retention rate is at 91.0 compared to last year's 90.6 percent, and the second-year retention rate is at 84.3 up from last year's 83.7 percent.
 Both the four-year and six-year graduation rates increased from 45.7 percent and 70.2 percent to 46.8 percent and 70.7 percent, respectively.
 The total estimated system enrollment - which includes West Lafayette, Purdue Calumet, Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne, select programs at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis, Purdue North Central and the Statewide Technology Program - is 74,259.
 Indiana residents make up 67.8 percent of students in the Purdue system. The final campus enrollment for Purdue North Central will not be available until next week.
 * Statewide Technology, 1,018 College of Technology degrees are offered in Anderson, Columbus/Greensburg, Indianapolis, Kokomo, Lafayette, New Albany, Richmond, South Bend and Vincennes.
 The number of international students on the West Lafayette campus is 8,702, which is 140 students more than last year, and is a record.
 "In line with the university's student success goals, this group of first-year international students is the best academically prepared class," said Michael Brzezinski, dean of international programs.
 "These students bring their culture and their world views with them to our campus and in doing so they provide a global experience for our Indiana and U.S.
 non-resident students alike." The number of Graduate School students is 8,407, which is 244 more than last year's 8,163. The Graduate School received 16,895 applications this year.
 "Purdue's graduate school has seen a fairly steady increase in enrollment over the last decade, and this reflects a general trend of interest in graduate programs, especially in the colleges of Engineering and Technology," said Mark J.
 T. Smith, dean of the Graduate School. In addition, another 941 students are enrolled in professional programs (Veterinary Medicine and Pharmacy).
 * Ethnicity: Black or African-American, 1,229; Asian, 1,887; Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, 36; Hispanic/Latino, 1,463; American Indian/Alaska Native, 57; and two or more races, 695.
 Purdue saw an increase in both total minority -- up 151 to 5,367 from last year's 5,216 -- and underrepresented minorities -- up 53 to 3,169 to last year's 3,116.
 * Undergraduate residency: Indiana students, 16,751; U.S. non-Indiana students, 7,749; and international students, 4,940 Purdue University Home Page
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/purdue-convocations-offers-ways-for-students-to-get-involved.html
<Content> Purdue Convocations offers ways for students to get involved
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue Convocations offers students two ways to get involved this year through participation in their student organizations, 
Convocations Voice Network and Student Concert Committee. Convocations Voice Network, also known as CVN: The Student Ushering Club, was created to support and promote the performing arts presentations brought to campus by Convocations.
 Currently, more than 350 students volunteer their nights and weekends ushering patrons at performances in Elliott Hall of Music, Loeb Playhouse and Fowler Hall.
 Students who participate in ushering at performances are permitted to stay and watch the show at no cost. CVN members may usher for as many or as few shows as they like.
 Callout will be 8:30 p.m. Tuesday (Aug. 28) in Wetherill Laboratory of Chemistry, Room 200. The Student Concert Committee (SCC) helps to advise Purdue Convocations about popular entertainment selections for students on Purdue's West Lafayette campus.
 SCC is a group of 16 student members who are selected through an application and interview process. Those chosen experience the equivalent of an internship in the entertainment industry.
 In addition to weekly meetings, SCC members work on-sale days for SCC shows, are involved in publicity and promotional duties for their events, and work backstage the day of show.
 Each year the committee selects eight new members. Callout will be at 7 p.m. Wednesday (Aug. 29) in Stewart Center's Fowler Hall.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/purdue-doctoral-student-named-u.s.-kauffman-global-scholar.html
<Content> Purdue doctoral student named U.S. Kauffman Global Scholar
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University doctoral student and aspiring entrepreneur Landon Young has been selected as a 2013 U.S.
 Kauffman Global Scholar, a program led by the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation. Young, who is pursuing a doctoral degree in interdisciplinary ecological sciences and engineering, will participate in the Kansas City, Mo.
-based program, which runs from January through mid-June. Purdue announced his Kauffman appointment on Friday (Nov. 16) in connection with Global Entrepreneurship Week activities on campus.
 "As a Kauffman Global Scholar, I will be transformed into a more effective entrepreneur, a strategic decision-maker and global businessperson," said Young, of Mitchell, Ind.
 "I will discover new ways to engage the global market place and achieve entrepreneurial goals more quickly using my expanded network of colleagues.
 By fully extracting the benefits of the Kauffman Global Scholars Program, I will be prepared to empower individuals and induce social change through innovation.
" Young has already been involved in startup companies from the ground floor. He is CEO of World Help Solutions Inc., a company seeking to provide efficient and effective solutions to elevate the quality of life in Third World countries through asset-based design and the implementation of systems, technologies and social programs.
 In addition, he is working with a wind turbine startup, Dualpower Turbines LLC. Other areas of interest include appropriate technology, entrepreneurial education and outreach, transdisciplinary team building and ecological design.
 Young received his bachelor's and master's degrees from Purdue, along with completing the university's Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation
 Program. He was awarded a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship, which provides three years of funding to any doctoral program in the country, and the Chappelle Fellowship at Purdue.
 As a 2013 Kauffman Global Scholar, Young is one of 10 students who will study, exchange ideas and work with entrepreneurial experts.
 Through the program, the scholars: * Meet and engage with leading scholars and thinkers, policy leaders, researchers and business founders.
 Building on their existing expertise, they will have the opportunity to further develop their skills in the direction of entrepreneurship and the creation of innovative businesses.
 * Learn from fellow aspiring entrepreneurs from other countries who likewise aim to build companies with global vision and reach.
 They will learn to think systematically about entrepreneurship and the variables that may lead to the success of their ventures.
 * Visit leading universities to exchange ideas with faculty, students, and those engaged in innovative, entrepreneurial work. * Experience a three-month entrepreneurship internship at an innovative company, and understand the challenges and rewards of entrepreneurship.
 During its first five years, the Global Scholars Program has hosted students sponsored by governments and organizations from six countries representing at least 12 nationalities.
 The 2012 scholars are from the Netherlands, Italy, the United Kingdom, Singapore and the United States. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/purdue-donations-of-nearly-300-million-second-highest-in-university-history.html
<Content> Purdue donations of nearly $300 million second highest in university history
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University reported fundraising activity of nearly $300 million for the fiscal year that ended June 30, marking the second highest annual total ever for Purdue fundraising.
The fiscal year 2012 total of $298.8 million is 32 percent higher than 2011 and second only to the $311.7 million raised in 2003.
 "We're grateful to the alumni and friends of Purdue who made our progress possible," said Purdue President France A. Córdova. "Much of what our faculty, staff and students have accomplished would not have happened without their philanthropy.
 Our donors help make a Purdue degree attainable for students with limited finances, they encourage our best and brightest to reach higher, and they provide the additional support needed for the basic research breakthroughs and inspire the innovations that drive our economy.
"Signature gifts included:* A $10 million anonymous gift for construction of the Center for Student Excellence and Leadership, the centerpiece of a student success corridor that will bring academic enhancement programs, student organizations and extracurricular activities into a new campus core.
* More than $10 million to endow undergraduate and graduate student scholarships and named faculty chairs. Donors signed more than 416 endowment agreements with Purdue this fiscal year, a significant increase that development directors credit to new matching gift programs.
* $10 million to Purdue's international programs for research, training and scholarships from Nanshan Group Co. Ltd., a leading aluminum company based in China.
 The company is building a $100 million, 435,000-square-foot aluminum extrusion facility in Lafayette in part for its proximity to Purdue.
• A gift-in-kind valued at $61.2 million for Synopsys electronic design automation software used in graduate and undergraduate engineering programs and microelectronic and nanoscale research in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering.
 President's Council membership reached 18,456 members in December, exceeding an 18,000-member goal set five years ago. The President's Council was established in 1972 to recognize the alumni and donors whose private giving is key to moving educational and discovery goals forward at Purdue.
Lisa Calvert, vice president for development, said the total fundraising reached $1.1 billion over Córdova's five-year tenure. "We have achieved campaign-like results without holding a public campaign, which is a significant testament to the generosity of our donors, alumni, faculty and staff," Calvert said.
 "Fewer than five universities with official campaigns have accomplished results such as Purdue."Annual fundraising totals at Purdue are reported according to the standards provided by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education.
 Net fundraising production includes cash, real estate, gifts-in-kind, deferred gifts and new pledges. Payments made on pledges that were booked in previous fiscal years are not counted.
 A full report on Purdue fundraising efforts will be given to the Board of Trustees on July 20. Sources: France A. Córdova, president@purdue.edu
 Lisa Calvert, 765-494-1704, lcalvert@purdue.edu Note to Journalists: FY 2007 previously held the highest annual total for fundraising net production at Purdue.
 It has been adjusted to account for the rescission of the Alfred Mann Institute pledge, and 2003 now has the record at $311.6 million.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-e-pubs-celebrates-5-millionth-download,-success-of-highly-utilized-collections-and-their-impact-on-research.html
<Content> Purdue e-Pubs celebrates 5-millionth download, success of highly utilized collections and their impact on research
 Purdue e-Pubs celebrates 5-millionth download, success of highly utilized collections and their impact on research WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - Purdue e-Pubs, one of the three institutional repositories as part of Purdue University Libraries, has reached another significant milestone, hitting 5 million downloads this past month.
 A key collection piece downloaded as part of this milestone is the Birck and NCN publication series, one of the most popular and highly utilized collections housed in Purdue e-Pubs, which has seen more than 281,000 downloads to date.
 The 5-millionth download was an article from the Birck and NCN publications series, "Conductance Asymmetry of Graphene p-n Junction
," by Tony Low, Seokmin Hong, Joerg Appenzeller, Supriyo Datta, and Mark S. Lundstrom. As part of Open Access Week, Oct. 21-27, the Mark Lundstrom, Don and Carol Scifres Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and founding director of the Network for Computational Nanotechnology, will be awarded the Open Access Research Award on Oct.
 25 for his leadership in creating NanoHUB, a radical departure from traditional forms of scholarly communication in nanotechnology with a strongly open access character.
 Lundstrom also is a co-author on the 5-millionth article download. For faculty wishing to make their work available through Purdue e-Pubs and start receiving monthly download counts, visit: 
http://www.lib.purdue.edu/openaccess/getstarted. For center directors and others interested in more formal publishing options, repository specialist David Scherer, 
dscherer@purdue.edu, is available for consultations. Purdue e-Pubs is a service of the Purdue Libraries, providing free global online access to Purdue-affiliated articles, reports, conference proceedings, student scholarship, and more.
 Purdue e-Pubs also provides online publishing support for original publications. The Birck and NCN Publications Series contains more than 1,400 publications authored by members of the Birck Nanotechnology Center and the Network for Computational Nanotechnology.
 Formed in 2007, the Birck and NCN collection of publications was one of the earliest collections in Purdue e-Pubs and has become one of its most popular collections to date.
 The collection of publications in Purdue e-Pubs serves a portal into some of the important and fascinating research being conducted at Purdue on nanoscience and nanotechnology from these two centers.
 Contact: Dave Scherer, scholarly repository specialist, Purdue e-Pubs, 765-494-8511, dscherer@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-economist-realistic-renewable-fuel-standard-attainable.html
<Content> Purdue economist: Realistic Renewable Fuel Standard attainable
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The nation likely can produce federally mandated levels of biofuels in 2014 if the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency reduces its requirements by 2.3 billion gallons, Purdue University energy policy specialist Wally Tyner says.
 Tyner, the James and Lois Ackerman Professor of Agricultural Economics, projects that refiners could reasonably expect to produce 15.85 billion gallons of biofuels, less than the 18.15 billion that the EPA requires in its Renewable Fuel Standard for 2014.
 The EPA said on Aug. 6 that it will "propose adjustments" to next year's volume requirements because of limitations hindering production of biofuels, suggesting that the target levels will be reduced.
 "The devil is in the details. However, it is clear that if the EPA does what is implied … the RFS moves from being unworkable to quite manageable," Tyner says in his report "The Biofuels Renewable Fuel Standard - EPA to the Rescue" on the PennEnergy website.
 The RFS requires a minimum amount of biofuels to be blended into transportation fuels such as gasoline and diesel. For 2013, that level is 16.55 billion gallons.
 As it is now, the volume requirement continues to rise each year until 2022. The RFS has been a topic of debate for several years in part because of the corn ethanol "blend wall," the point at which the market cannot consume as much ethanol as the EPA requires to be produced.
 One reason is that consumption of gasoline nationwide has declined - from 141 billion gallons in 2007, when the RFS mandates were last updated, to a rate of 133 billion now.
 Tyner also notes that the EPA has been forced to reduce its cellulosic mandate every year because not enough of that biofuel has been available to meet the targets; yet the EPA has maintained the overall biofuels production requirement.
 Tyner calculates in the report that 15.85 billion gallons of biofuels can be produced in 2014 if the EPA reduces its volume targets for corn ethanol to better align with the blend wall, and by lowering its requirements for production of cellulosic biofuels such as from corn stover, straw and Miscanthus grass to what the EPA might deem to be available.
 He said blend requirements could be met in 2015 and 2016 with similar reductions. With no changes in the RFS, the energy industry would have to blend 20.5 billion gallons of biofuels into gasoline in 2015 and 22.25 billion gallons in 2016.
 His calculations would reduce those totals to 16.58 billion in 2015 and 17.3 billion the following year. Tyner said the EPA has shown willingness to reconsider the blend mandates because it was unrealistic to believe that the industry could meet them as EPA had enforced them in the past.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-economists-urge-farm-budget-calculations,-offer-guide.html
<Content> Purdue economists urge farm budget calculations, offer guide
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue Extension agricultural economists are urging farmers to calculate estimated budgets for the 2014 cropping year and again are offering a guide to help with the process.
 The 2014 Purdue Crop Cost and Return Guide, which is available for free download from the Purdue University Center for Commercial Agriculture website at 
https://www.agecon.purdue.edu/commercialag/resources/index.html, gives estimated costs for planting, growing and harvesting a variety of crops, as well as estimated contribution margins and earnings.
 The guide is updated frequently as grain futures prices change and the costs of inputs, such as seed, fertilizer, chemicals and fuel, fluctuate.
 According to Michael Langemeier, Purdue Extension agricultural economist, there are two main drivers in the 2014 guide compared with the 2013 edition - falling grain prices and fertilizer costs.
 "The expected drop in corn, soybean and wheat prices is having a large negative impact on market revenue and contribution margins," he said.
 "More positive is the expected continued decline in fertilizer costs. Fertilizer prices are quite a bit lower right now compared to what they were last fall when we were working on the 2013 guide.
" According to guide estimates, revenues for rotation corn on average-productivity land could fall by $140 per acre compared with 2013.
 Rotation soybean revenues on average-productivity land could fall by $35 per acre. Those changes in grain prices and input costs mean it's even more important for growers to estimate their budgets for the next year, Langemeier said.
 As it looks now, rotation soybeans could be more profitable than continuous corn for some farmers in the coming year. "Rotation soybeans are looking very attractive for 2014, so we could see more rotation soybeans than continuous corn," he said.
 Right now, the per-acre contribution margin (revenue minus variable costs) for rotation soybeans on average land is an estimated $395, while continuous corn is $277.
 Those numbers could change, however, as the 2013 cropping season wraps up. Langemeier also pointed out that the estimates in the guide won't directly apply to individual farms.
 "This guide is not going to be directly applicable to any farm," he said. "This guide is specifically that - a guide. It gives a person an idea of how market revenue should be computed, and it gives an idea of how we did it, using current futures prices and trend yields.
 "More importantly, it gives someone an idea of the important costs that need to be included and how you would calculate those costs for a specific farm, for a specific field and for a specific enterprise, such as rotation corn.
" Included in the guide are illustrations of how to calculate variable costs - fertilizer, seed, fuel and chemicals - and overhead costs, such as machinery, operator labor and land rent.
 The guide focuses very heavily on figuring out a farm's opportunity costs when calculating overhead. Opportunity costs include the loss of money from alternatives that aren't chosen.
 For example, if farmers own land and choose to farm it themselves, they give up potential rental income. "We basically have two bottom lines in this guide," Langemeier said.
 "The first one is called a contribution margin - that's market revenue minus variable costs. The second is earnings - the contribution margin minus overhead costs.
 The contribution margin should be positive because you have overhead costs you need to be able to cover. The earnings, we would expect over a long period of time, to be close to zero.
 Farmers need to include opportunity costs in a budget, such as the cost to own machinery, land rent and the fact that their labor is worth something.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-engineering-students-to-compete-in-regional,-national-competitions.html
<Content> Purdue engineering students to compete in regional, national competitions
 The Bearing Analytics team of Purdue students, from left, Lokesh Gupta, Andrew Kovacs, Chris Ochynski and Anurag Garg will compete in the 2013 Midwest Clean Energy Challenge in Chicago and the Rice Business Plan Competition in Houston in April.
 The team's business plan promotes patent-pending technology that indicates impending bearing failure better than commercial sensors currently on the market.
 (Bearing Analytics photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Researchers in Purdue University's College of Engineering could improve the operations of energy-generating devices like wind turbines and high-volume manufacturers with their patent-pending sensor that monitors the performance of bearings.
 Anurag Garg, a doctoral candidate in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, said accurate measurements of temperature and vibration changes can alert workers to premature bearing failure.
 "Taking early corrective action could improve safety conditions for workers, reduce operational downtime and increase bearing life," he said.
 "These lead to more efficient use of resources, improved operational efficiency and a cost savings of millions of dollars a year for industry.
" Conventional bearing sensors that monitor real-time bearing performance are mounted outside the bearing, which limits the ability to determine internal conditions.
 "The Purdue-developed technology allows a sensor to be placed directly on the bearing cage, which is the source of temperature and vibration fluctuations," Garg said.
 "As a result, it provides a more reliable indicator of impending bearing failure and has a better response time than any commercial sensor available on the market.
" Garg and three other Purdue students formed a group called Bearing Analytics to present the technology in competitions. Other team members are Lokesh Gupta, Andrew Kovacs and Christopher Ochynski.
 Gupta and Kovacs are doctoral candidates in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. They and Garg are doing doctoral work in the 
Adaptive Radio Electronics and Sensors group. Ochynski is a senior in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering and a first-year student in the MBA program at Krannert School of Management.
 Bearing Analytics won the Indiana Clean Energy Challenge in February 2013 and will compete in the 2013 Midwest Clean Energy Challenge on April 4 in Chicago.
 The team also will compete in the national Rice Business Plan Competition on April 11-13 in Houston. "We are excited to prepare for the Midwest Clean Energy Challenge and the Rice Business Plan Competition, two of the most prestigious events that highlight innovations developed at universities," Garg said.
 "We also acknowledge our mentors who guided the development of the technology: Dimitrios Peroulis of the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering and School of Mechanical Engineering, and Farshid Sadeghi and Douglas Adams of the School of Mechanical Engineering.
" The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-engineering-students-win-regional-competition,-100,000.html
<Content> Purdue engineering students win regional competition, $100,000
 From left, Amy Francetic, Clean Energy Trust; Andrew Kovacs, Bearing Analytics; Jennifer Garson, Department of Energy; Christopher Ochynski, Bearing Analytics; Anurag Garg, Bearing Analytics; Lokesh Gupta, Bearing Analytics; and David Danielson, Department of Energy, pose after Bearing Analytics won the student division of the Clean Energy Trust’s 2013 Clean Energy Challenge.
 The team's business plan promotes patent-pending technology that indicates impending bearing failure better than commercial sensors currently on the market.
 (Bearing Analytics photo)Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A team of four students in Purdue's College of Engineering moved one step closer to developing technology that could strengthen the operations of high-volume manufacturers and energy-generating devices like wind turbines.
 The Bearing Analytics team won the student division of the Clean Energy Trust's 2013 Clean Energy Challenge. The team will represent an eight-state region in early summer in the National Clean Energy Business Plan Competition, sponsored by the U.S.
 Department of Energy. Team members Anurag Garg, Lokesh Gupta and Andrew Kovacs are doctoral candidates in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering.
 They are doing doctoral work in the Adaptive Radio Electronics and Sensors group. Christopher Ochynski, a senior in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering and a first-year student in the Krannert School of Management's MBA program, is the other team member.
 Bearing Analytics' patent-pending sensor monitors the performance of bearings and alerts workers to premature bearing failure by measuring temperature and vibration changes.
 Garg said conventional bearing sensors used to monitor performance are mounted outside the bearing, which limits the ability to determine internal conditions.
 "The Purdue-developed technology allows a sensor to be placed directly on the bearing cage, which is the source of temperature and vibration fluctuations," he said.
 "As a result, it provides a more reliable indicator of impending bearing failure and has a better response time than any commercial sensor available on the market.
" Garg said winning the Clean Energy Trust's 2013 Clean Energy Challenge strengthens Bearing Analytics. "My colleagues and I feel that this Purdue-developed technology has been further validated by winning the 2013 Clean Energy Challenge, one of the most prestigious competitions in the nation.
 We look forward to competing against and sharing ideas with students from other pre-eminent research universities during the National Clean Energy Business Plan Competition," he said.
 "We also acknowledge our mentors and advisers who help us prepare for these competitions. We would not have been able to go this far without their work.
" The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-engineering-to-boost-research-relationships-with-industry.html
<Content> Purdue engineering to boost research relationships with industry
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Working to expand and strengthen research relationships with industry, Purdue University's College of Engineering has named a senior director of Corporate and Foundation Relations.
 Named to the position was Eric Holloway, a former managing director in Purdue's School of Engineering Education. "He is going to be working to increase interaction between the College of Engineering and our corporate partners in support of strategic research initiatives, collaborative research projects and opportunities for recruitment of graduate students," said 
Melba Crawford, associate dean of engineering for research and a professor of agronomy, civil and electrical and computer engineering.
 "One of our chief goals in collaborative research is building and maintaining research relationships with industry. This includes not only large corporations but also small and medium-size companies.
" Holloway, an engineer by training, will work with the associate dean for research in the College of Engineering and the Office of the Vice President for Research.
 The appointment was effective Aug. 1. The position addresses the need to add staff with technical expertise to help faculty members engage industry and corporations in research-related initiatives.
 It is critical to develop and retain relationships with industry in areas of research, philanthropy and student recruitment, Holloway said.
 "When a relationship is going very well with a company you have all three of those things going on at the same time," he said. "Our focus is to both leverage recent relationships we already have into some research activities and to develop new relationships.
 Some companies can't afford to conduct research and development or need to cut back, and we may be able to help fill a void." The position expands the traditional role of engaging corporate partners in student recruitment and philanthropy to add the focus on strengthening and expanding the research relationships.
 The effort dovetails with a new Indiana Next Generation Manufacturing Competitiveness Center (IN-MaC) led by Purdue to build partnerships with manufacturing companies by providing assistance to strengthen competitiveness and add or preserve jobs in Indiana.
 From 2007-2013, Holloway served as managing director and the director of Instructional Laboratories in the School of Engineering Education.
 As director he was in charge of the building and implementation of the Ideas to Innovation (i2i) Laboratory, which opened in August 2008 and houses classrooms and laboratories used by the 2,000 students in Purdue's First-Year Engineering program.
 He oversaw the daily operation of the i2i lab and was responsible for the personnel, logistics and technology used in the classroom and labs.
 He also helped build and direct the College of Engineering-sponsored Artisan and Fabrication Lab (AFL), which houses machine and carpentry shops and a prototyping lab used by all students in the College of Engineering for project work.
 He received a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from Purdue in 1992 and has more than 15 years of industrial experience, specializing in manufacturing and electronic controls, for which he holds three patents.
 His industrial experience includes positions at Toyota, Cummins, Woodward, and TRW Automotive. Eric Holloway, 765-496-6051, eholloway@purdue.edu
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-expert-black-friday-isnt-just-for-november.html
<Content> Purdue expert: Black Friday isn't just for November
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Black Friday isn't what people think it is, says Richard Feinberg, a Purdue University professor of consumer sciences and retailing.
 Black Friday - the day after Thanksgiving - has been promoted as the day that kicks off the holiday shopping season. It is named Black Friday because going back to the 1970s, sales from then through the end of the year have helped push retailers into profitability.
 "The retail season has already begun," he says. "In promotions and advertising that begin as early as September, retailers are using key words and phrases that signal holiday shopping for consumers.
 "Door buster sales aren't just for the Friday after Thanksgiving. They're for any Friday in October now." Feinberg warns that a heavy and early holiday promotion environment can backfire on retailers.
 "As consumers are bombarded with more promotions, it is getting more difficult to get them excited about sales," he says. "At some point, their eyes glaze over, and it's nearly impossible to get their attention.
" One reason for the early promotions this year is a late Thanksgiving, with just 25 shopping days between then and Christmas, compared to 32 last year.
 Despite that, Purdue research shows that the number of shopping days doesn't predict the amount of money that will be spent, Feinberg says.
 Another reason is that retailers face an increasingly competitive environment, with more stores and more Internet shopping. Meanwhile, the traditional Black Friday still has it fans.
 "Black Friday has become a giant sporting event for both retailers and consumers," Feinberg says. "Consumers love the competition and love getting home recounting their battle stories as they unwrap their new, large-screen TV.
" While Black Friday is no longer the busiest shopping day of the year, it is in the top 10 and should not be ignored by any sized retailer, Feinberg says.
 Black Friday sales mean money in the bank and might even convince shoppers to come back in the following weeks. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-expert-holiday-retail-sales-likely-to-lag-behind-last-year.html
<Content> Purdue expert: Holiday retail sales likely to lag behind last year
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Retail sales this holiday season won't be as strong as last year's, predicts Richard Feinberg, a Purdue University professor of consumer sciences and retailing.
 Feinberg cites the end of a Social Security tax reduction along with lingering high rates of unemployment and underemployment as possible causes for stagnant spending.
 He expects retail sales to range from flat to 5 percent lower than last year. He calls any suggestion of an increase over last year "overly optimistic.
" The end of the Social Security tax reduction means families have $700 to $1,000 less in spendable income this year. "That translates to anywhere from $82 billion to $117 billion that consumers had last year that they don't have this year," Feinberg says.
 "And this hasn't been made up by any rise in income or employment." Holiday sales are crucial to retailers. They account for about 20 percent of annual retail sales and about 35 percent of profit, Feinberg says.
 But this year retailers appear to be cutting back on holiday-season inventory, which will limit what they have on hand even if sales pick up, he says.
 The one area of likely increase is online sales. Feinberg predicts online ordering will increase from 10 percent to 15 percent over last year.
 Still, online represents less than 10 percent of all retail sales, he notes. Feinberg says there is a caveat to all holiday sales predictions: "Any number of external events can significantly affect holiday retail sales.
 Consumer spending is sensitive to poor weather, government inaction leading to shutdowns, gasoline prices, and geopolitical situations at home and abroad.
" Source: Richard Feinberg, xdj1@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-expert-offers-research-update-on-cornstalk-nitrate-tests.html
<Content> Purdue expert offers research update on cornstalk nitrate tests
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - End-of-season cornstalk nitrate tests conducted over a series of years can help corn growers better manage nitrogen by showing whether soil nitrogen applied during the season met or exceeded crop needs, a Purdue Extension agronomist says.
 Farmers can use the results to choose the best nitrogen source, application timing, placement and rates. The test works because as corn approaches physiological maturity, plants that don't have access to enough nitrogen will take nitrate from the lower stalk and move it to the ear.
 Conversely, if a plant has too much nitrogen, nitrate accumulates in the lower portion of the stalk. In order for cornstalk nitrate test (CSNT) results to help farmers alter their nitrogen management programs, the test needs to be conducted in multiple years, 
Jim Camberato said in a recent research update in Purdue Extension's Pest and Crop Newsletter. "Multiple seasons of CSNT evaluation are warranted before altering an N management program because the optimum rate varies from season to season," he said.
 The reason for the variation is that a series of factors affect the optimum rate. They include differences in soil nitrogen supply, loss of nitrogen from the root zone and differences in corn hybrid nitrogen use.
 Pests and weeds also can affect the amount of nitrogen used. "The average correct N rate for maximizing profit over the long term is almost certainly wrong in any one season - either too much or too little," Camberato said.
 "Thus, the evaluation of an N management system with the CSNT or any other N-assessment tool on any given field in a single season is interesting, but not particularly useful in making management decisions for future years.
" Instead, he recommended that growers maintain a database of end-of-season cornstalk nitrate tests and that they consider all of the data before adjusting fertilizer-based nitrogen-management programs.
 The best way to conduct a cornstalk nitrate test is to take 15 or more 8-inch stalk segments beginning 6 inches above the soil surface from representative areas of a field.
 The samples need to be collected within a few weeks after black layer, the point when corn is considered physiologically mature.
 They can then be sent to a lab and analyzed for nitrate-nitrogen (NO3-N), and the results can be compared with recommended rates in Indiana.
 Nitrate concentrations between 450 parts per million and 2,000 parts per million are considered optimal, while anything higher than 2,000 ppm is considered excessive, Camberato said.
 More in-depth information about cornstalk nitrate testing is available in Purdue Extension's free bulletin Cornstalk Testing to Evaluate the Nitrogen Status of Mature Corn: Nitrogen Management Assurance.
 The bulletin can be downloaded through Purdue Extension's The Education Store by searching for AY-322-W. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-expert-retailers-dealing-with-showrooming.html
<Content> Purdue expert: Retailers dealing with 'showrooming'
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — As the holiday buying season progresses, one trend retailers will have to deal with is "showrooming," says Richard Feinberg, a Purdue University professor of consumer sciences and retailing.
 Showrooming describes shoppers who go into a store to look at a product, then use a smartphone to search for the item at a cheaper price, often buying on the Internet.
 Feinberg says that the amount of showrooming being done is a small part of buying. But because most retailers operate at the margin of profitability, if even as few as 1 percent of customers are showrooming, it can make a difference in whether sales increase over the year before.
 He also notes that the use of showrooming is likely to grow: "The easier using a smart device becomes for searching and ordering, the more likely showrooming will become a major problem for retailers.
" Most showroomers are under 35, Feinberg says, so if a retailer's target market is the under-35 buyer, showrooming is more of a concern.
 Feinberg says one way retailers are fighting showrooming is through price matching, which can keep the sale in the store at the price the consumer wants to pay.
 Purdue research has shown that price matching isn't used a lot because consumers are unaware or they don't like the possibility of confrontation and because sales associates often don't like dealing with it.
 Feinberg says one of the best ways retailers can combat showrooming is with strong private brands that can't be purchased anywhere else.
 But the bottom line, he says, is the relationship the retailer has with the consumer. "Have a great product at a great price and a strong loyalty program, and consumers won't showroom," he says.
 Source: Richard Feinberg, xdj1@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-extension-at-state-fair-education,-fun-at-same-time.html
<Content> Purdue Extension at state fair: Education, fun at same time
 The Purdue Extension exhibit The A-maize-ing Popcorn Adventure, new to the Indiana State Fair this year, will lead visitors through the history of popcorn with fun facts, such as what makes popcorn pop.
 (Purdue Agricultural Communications graphic)Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue Extension will provide exhibits and events at the Indiana State Fair that will offer fun learning, celebrate the work of women in agriculture and give a first look at how the Indiana corn and soybean crops are developing.
 Visitors to the Indiana State Fairgrounds in Indianapolis Aug. 2-18 will find educational exhibits and games for children and adults, learn about preparing healthy meals and participate in other activities geared toward the entire family.
 "Purdue Extension activities are focused on things that matter to fair-goers in their daily lives. We provide relevant, expert information to help them make good decisions for their families' health and welfare," said Danica Kirkpatrick, engagement program manager for 
Purdue Agriculture. "And we do this in a fun way, incorporating education in the family-friendly surroundings of the state fair. It's a perfect match.
" * The A-maize-ing Popcorn Adventure, a new exhibit where visitors can go through a maze and learn interesting information about popcorn, such as why popcorn pops, from Max; his dog, Munch; and Professor Popcorn.
 The exhibit, funded by the state fair and tied to the fair's 2013 theme of Year of Popcorn, will be at a site immediately east of the Hoosier Lottery Grandstand.
 * To My Plate and Beyond, an interactive exhibit that explains the U.S Department of Agriculture's guide for healthy eating, returns to the DuPont Food Pavilion.
 In this exhibit, Max and his best pal, Munch, visit a grocery store, a home kitchen, pantry, dining room and two restaurants on a flying saucer.
 They learn about healthy eating and answer questions about MyPlate. The exhibit is sponsored by the American Dairy Association and Indiana's Dairy Farm Families.
 * Spay/neuter surgery exhibit, providing 29 surgeries over 13 days for visitors to observe. The surgeries are needed to prepare Humane Society pets for adoption.
 The exhibit, in the same area as the popcorn exhibit, is a partnership between the Purdue University College of Veterinary Medicine
 and the Indiana Veterinary Medical Association. In addition to the surgeries, veterinarians and veterinary technicians will provide educational demonstrations to visitors about what is new in veterinary medicine and to show them how to care for their dog, cat or other animals.
 Also, veterinary students from the college will meet with the public daily on veterinary-related issues. * What’s Bugging Belva?
, an exhibit from past years, will be in the Exposition Hall. Presented like a children's book, visitors will follow Belva and Grandpa Belvedere as Belva learns why it's good to be a bug.
 The exhibit was funded by the Purdue Department of Entomology. Visitors will learn even more about bugs with activities on specific days of the fair.
 On Aug. 9, entomologist Tom Turpin will show how to cook with bugs in a program titled "There's a Bug in My Soup!" in the DuPont Food Pavilion.
 Purdue entomology staff and students will share information about insects, showing them live and pinned, on "Bug Day" Aug. 17 in the Department of Natural Resources Building.
 On Aug. 12, the Purdue University Science Theatre Outreach Program will present "Let's Make a Meal," during which puppets will talk about entomology in three performances on the Main Street Stage near the Dairy Barn.
 There will be other food, nutrition and cooking demonstrations at various times. In the DuPont Food Pavilion, "A Taste of Wild Game," about preparing fish and venison, will be held Aug.
 8, 9, 15 and 16, and "Cooking for a Healthy Heart," "Eat Right for Less" and "Making the Most of Your Garden" will be presented Aug.
 9. Purdue Extension staff also will give food and nutrition demonstrations throughout the fair in 4-H Centennial Hall. * Crop production report panel discussion at 1:30 p.m.
 Aug. 12 in the banquet hall of the Indiana Farm Bureau Building. Agricultural experts will analyze the U.S. Department of Agriculture's crop production report, the first yield and production forecasts for the 2013 U.S.
 and Indiana corn and soybean crops. * Women in Agriculture awards Aug. 14 at 10:30 a.m. in the Normandy Barn. Two awards, to be presented to women who demonstrate leadership and innovation and make positive contributions to Indiana agriculture, will be given as part of the lieutenant governor's Celebration of Agriculture ceremony.
 A highlight at the fair will be Purdue Day on Aug. 9. The colleges of agriculture, health and human sciences, and veterinary medicine
 are among those that will have booths and exhibits along State Fair Boulevard. Activities will include cricket-spitting, bean bag toss, discovering caffeine content in energy drinks, and a texting-and-driving simulator.
 Purdue staff will be on hand to answer questions about the colleges. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-extension-educators-honored-with-annual-awards.html
<Content> Purdue Extension educators honored with annual awards
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The Indiana Extension Educators Association presented annual awards Thursday (Nov. 7) to county educators during a luncheon at the 
Purdue Extension's Professional Development Conference. *Individual: Annette Lawler of Harrison County for Southern Indiana Communities Active in Disaster.
 * Bob Amick: Melissa Merida of Floyd County for Ready on the 4-H Set/Science Filmmaking Workshop. * Kelly Heckaman (Kosciusko), Amy Nierman (Jackson), Jeff Pell (Hendricks), Hans Schmitz (Gibson) and Shannon Franklin (Ohio) for the Indiana Dairy Youth Conference.
 Source: Jason Henderson, associate dean of the College of Agriculture and Extension director, 765-494-8489, jhenderson@purdue.edu
 Note to journalists: Photos of the award recipients will be available at http://www.ag.purdue.edu/extension/awards/. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-extension-to-host-webinar-on-funding-opportunities.html
<Content> Purdue Extension to host webinar on funding opportunities
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue Extension is offering free online workshops to help farmers and others identify sources of funding to help them take their agriculture-related projects from dream to reality.
 "Funding Opportunities for Farmers and Others" will be held from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. EDT Sept. 25 and Oct. 2. They will provide basic introduction into some of the grants, loans and cost-share opportunities that are available and explain applicant eligibility and how to apply.
 Participants also will learn how to use outside funding to begin a new farm enterprise or grow an existing one. It is recommended that participants viewing the webinars from home or office log in to the site ahead of time to assess their connection and make sure they have downloaded any necessary software.
 For more information on how to take part in the sessions, contact Roy Ballard at 317-462-1113 or rballard@purdue.edu. Writer: Jennifer Piotrowski, 765-494-8402, 
jpiotrow@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-extension-to-offer-food-safety-regulations-workshop.html
<Content> Purdue Extension to offer food safety regulations workshop
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue Extension and the university's food science department are offering a two-day workshop to help the meat, poultry, egg, and the fruit and vegetable industries better understand regulatory requirements of the federal Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point principles.
 The "Development and Implementation of HACCP and Prerequisite Programs" workshop will be Nov. 20-21 at the Indiana Farm Bureau Building, 225 S.
 East St., Indianapolis. It focuses on providing participants with a better understanding of how to develop and implement food safety management programs including Good Manufacturing Practices, Sanitation Standard Operating Procedures, Good Agricultural Practices, Best Management Practices for Animal Production, general hygiene and sanitation practices.
 The workshop will include an overview of foodborne hazards and prevention strategies, an understanding of HACCP principles, and an awareness of the regulatory requirements for HACCP programs.
 A customized track will be offered for meat, poultry and egg industry participants and another track for the fruit and vegetable industries.
 This workshop is an introductory course, approved by the International HACCP Alliance, for first-time participants and an update for those who had HACCP training previously.
 Participants attending both days will receive a certificate of completion. Early registration deadline is Nov. 1, with a cost of $400.
 The final registration deadline is Nov. 8 and will cost $600. The registration fee includes all workshop materials. Checks can be made payable to Purdue University and mailed with the registration form found at 
http://www.conf.purdue.edu/haacp. Participants can also register online. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-extension-to-offer-sheep,-goat-educational-webinars.html
<Content> Purdue Extension to offer sheep, goat educational webinars
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue Extension in cooperation with the University of Kentucky and Kentucky State University will offer two goat and sheep webinars in December to help producers with feeding practices, forage management and animal health.
 The webinars will run 7-9 p.m. (EST) on Dec. 3 and 10 at select Purdue and University of Kentucky Extension county offices. Expert presenters will discuss animal health, including selecting goats and sheep for resistance to internal parasites.
 They also will focus on plant and hay species best suited for the small ruminants since they rely on forage-heavy diets. "The webinar format allows the organizers from the two states to cooperate on this program and bring nationally known, expert speakers to producers," said Mike Neary, Purdue Extension small ruminant specialist.
 "Producers in Indiana and Kentucky will have access to cutting edge information that should help them produce sheep and goats more efficiently.
" * Dec. 3: "What kind of hay for goats and sheep?" by Terry Hutchens, retired University of Kentucky goat specialist. * Dec. 3: "Best pasture plant species for goats and sheep" by Greg Brann, grazing lands and soil health specialist with the Tennessee Natural Resources Conservation Service.
 * Dec. 10: "Selecting sheep and goats for resistance to internal parasites" by David Notter, professor emeritus of animal sciences at Virginia Tech.
 Purdue Extension county offices signed up to host the webinars are Dearborn, DuBois, Fulton, Hancock, Hendricks, Howard, Huntington, Jefferson, La Porte, Lawrence, Miami, Morgan, Ohio, Owen, Perry, Vermillion, Warrick, Washington and Whitley.
 University of Kentucky county offices hosting the webinars are Breathitt, Carter, Clay, Franklin, Grant, Johnson, Lewis, Lyon, Ohio and Scott.
 Questions can be directed to Neary at 765-494-4849, mneary@purdue.edu; Ken Andries, Kentucky State University Extension goat specialist at 
502-597-5094, kenneth.andries@kysu.edu; or Mark Kepler, Purdue Extension educator in Fulton County at 574-223-3397, mkepler@purdue.edu
. Site-specific questions can be directed to any of the host offices. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-features-5-students-dedicated-to-health,-wellness.html
<Content> Purdue features 5 students dedicated to health, wellness
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University is recognizing five students who are pursuing careers in health fields, such as athletic training, medicine and medical equipment development.
 Purdue Marketing and Media has developed a website at http://www.purdue.edu/fivestudents that includes information about the students.
 * Jennifer Evemeyer of San Francisco, an MBA student studying operations management and finance. She was inspired by her mother's heart problems to pursue a career in the medical device field.
 She is participating in an extended internship at Roche Diagnostics, a global leader in health care with U.S. headquarters in Indianapolis.
 * Lydia Lochamire of Hudson, Ind., a junior studying human development and family studies. She hopes to be a doctor of osteopathic medicine and to help prepare her she has made three medical mission trips to Nicaragua and was a certified nursing assistant in high school.
 She is currently an emergency room technician at Lafayette's IU Health Arnett Hospital. * Alberto Oseguera of San Antonio, a senior studying athletic training.
 He will be working as an athletic training student with the baseball team this spring. * Eli Mansfield of Brookston, Ind., a senior studying athletic training.
 He is working as an athletic training student with the head athletic trainer of the men's basketball team and has participated in data collection for Purdue researchers studying concussions in sports.
 * Benjavan Upatising of Bangkok, Thailand, a doctoral student studying industrial engineering. She is completing a four-year Mayo Clinic Healthcare Engineering Fellowship with Purdue's Regenstrief Center for Healthcare Engineering that is centered on a home-telemonitoring study of elderly patients with multiple chronic conditions.
 Benjavan Upatising, benjavan@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-features-5-students-for-the-month-of-april.html
<Content> Purdue features 5 students for the month of April
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A Purdue University website is featuring five students whose career interests include filmmaking, pharmacy and nanoscience technology.
 Information about these students is available on the Marketing and Media site at http://www.purdue.edu/fivestudents * Katie Lennox of Lebanon, Ind, a senior studying film and video studies.
 Lennox interned last summer at Zach Rosing Productions where she produced promotional footage for Footlite Musicals in Indianapolis.
 This is her second year as a video editor in Purdue's Hall of Music productions, and she works in her video class to stream live sporting and musical events on the Big Ten Network.
 She has also produced promotional videos for several nonprofit organizations, including Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Lafayette and Play Ball Indiana.
 * Diego Mendez of Quito, Ecuador, a master's student studying computer information technology. Mendez came to Purdue after receiving a bachelor's degree in engineering at the Army Polytechnic School in Ecuador.
 He and his wife, Mayari, are active in STEM education and recently took a trip back to their native Ecuador to encourage students in STEM studies.
 Following his graduation in May, Mendez will work at Zimmer Corp. in Warsaw Ind. * Silvia Oliveros-Torres of San Luis Potosi, Mexico, a master's student studying computer engineering.
 After receiving her bachelor's degree at Michigan Tech, Torres came to Purdue where she works with VACCINE, a Purdue lab sponsored by the U.S.
 Department of Homeland Security. Torres' recent work in the lab contributed to a project for the U.S. Coast Guard. A talented tennis player, Torres also helps coach the West Lafayette High School tennis team.
 * Erin Wilson of Odon, Ind., a senior studying pharmaceutical sciences. Wilson is involved at several Purdue research labs where she works with drugs that aim to help reduce pain for patients with cancer and cystic fibrosis.
 Wilson also mentors and teaches undergraduate students. Following her graduation in May, Wilson will begin her doctoral studies at UNC-Chapel Hill.
 * Yunlong Zi of Huoqiu County, Anhui Province, China, a doctoral student studying physics. After coming to the United States less than four years ago, Zi focuses his studies on what he believes to be the core of science in the future: nanoscience.
 His research is in material growth and electronics at the nanoscale for computer usage. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/purdue-features-5-students-interests-and-hobbies.html
<Content> Purdue features 5 students' interests and hobbies
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University is highlighting five students who are pursuing hobbies and activities that relate to sports, dancing, music and comedy.
 Purdue Marketing and Media has developed a website at https://www.purdue.edu/fivestudents/news-makers/index.html that includes information about the students and their activities.
 * Stephen Backus of Fort Wayne, Ind., a senior studying wildlife. He is head facilitator for the Boiler Challenge Program that offers challenge courses for groups of eight to 100, and his activities include rock climbing, competitive fencing and dog training.
 * Karlee Hepp of Fishers, Ind., a senior studying nursing. She is president of the Purdue Dance Marathon, which raises funds for Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis, and this year's event set an all-time high by raising $528,654.67.
 * Lane Konkel of Brookfield, Wis., a senior studying industrial engineering. She is head of Purdue's Paint Crew, which is composed of 3,000 students.
 After graduation, she plans to work for GE Healthcare in the company's Operations Management Leadership Program. * Lloyd Taylor of Gary, Ind.
, a sophomore studying industrial technology. He loves to perform music, dance, comedy and acts of faith and service including a mission trip to Guatemala the summer before he came to Purdue.
 He also has worked on music parody videos posted on You Tube including "Swipes on Swipes on Swipes" and "Purdue Bernie." * Brian Frankel of Deerfield, Ill.
, a senior studying movement and sport sciences. He is an intramural sports supervisor and plays on soccer and volleyball teams. 
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-features-5-students-who-work-for-equality.html
<Content> Purdue features 5 students who work for equality
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University is recognizing five students who are leaders on campus and in the community to promote race, culture and gender equality.
 Purdue Marketing and Media has developed a website at http://www.purdue.edu/fivestudents/ that includes information about the students.
 * Maxwell Alexander of Fort Wayne, Ind., a senior studying mechanical engineering. He has developed a new training experience for residential life staff at Wiley Hall.
 UNITE, which stands for University Network of Inclusive Training and Experience, addresses issues from cultural identity and race to body image, disabilities and bullying.
 * Laura Blackburn of Frankfort, Ind., a senior studying history and political science. She is a member of the Purdue Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ) Advisory Board and the College of Liberal Arts steering committee for the planned LGBTQ minor.
 She participated in the Victory Congressional Fund Internship Program and served in the office of Tammy Baldwin, then Wisconsin's U.S.
 representative and now the U.S. Senate's first openly gay member. * Martha Burris of Beloit, Wisc., a senior studying selling and sales management and organizational leadership and supervision.
 She is the director of diversity and inclusion for Purdue Student Government, which includes working on issues and activities for the social climate of diverse students on campus.
 She also is developing a university-wide Global Inclusion Week that will celebrate all cultures through food and music. * Jasmine Coe of Indianapolis, a doctoral student studying veterinary medicine.
 She helped establish a weekly literacy program for children at Lafayette's Hanna Community Center to promote science, diversity, equality and multiculturalism.
 She also is president of the national chapter of Veterinary Students as One in Culture and Ethnicity (VOICE). * Cesar Reynaga of Lima, Peru, a senior studying industrial engineering.
 He is president of the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers at Purdue, which has led community service projects to help local veterans and feed the homeless.
 Cesar Reynaga, creynaga@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-features-five-students-crafting-their-mark-on-the-world-of-design.html
<Content> Purdue features five students crafting their mark on the world of design
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University is recognizing five students who are pursuing careers in design fields, such as industrial design, apparel design and communication and art and design.
 Purdue Marketing and Media has developed a website at http://www.purdue.edu/fivestudents that includes information about the students.
 * Katie Azzi of Olathe, Kan., a senior studying apparel design and technology as well as art and design. Her fashion inspiration comes from the classic styles of the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s.
 She is working on her senior collection and hopes to become a product developer for a worldwide retailer. *Aaron Gray of Smyrna, Tenn.
, a junior studying industrial design. His interest in design started when he was in middle school, where he never seemed to stop drawing.
 His love for comics and video games has inspired him to become a professional concept artist for games and movies. He interned with Hasbro on Marvel and Star Wars projects.
 * Kenny Hsieh of Ann Arbor, Mich., a senior studying industrial design. While at Purdue, some of his designs include a cell phone case and a quadripod.
 He spent most of his high school years in Shanghai, where he was inspired by the city. He hopes to someday create a revolutionary design in an area such as electronics, transportation or footwear design.
 * Molly Longest of Carmel, Ind., a senior studying communication and art and design. While at Purdue, she co-founded the style blog "Purduelala" and is the main creative contributor to the site.
 She is looking to move to New York City or Chicago to find a career in one of her many creative interests. She is working on her new blog "Going for Broke," which deals with thrifty style practices.
 * Paige Tomfohrde of Jacksonville, Fla., a senior studying apparel design and technology. She spent a year at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City through Purdue's visiting students program.
 Her sense of style comes from a merging of fashion and theater. She was the costume designer for Purdue's 2012 production of the "Understudy" and for Civic Theater's 2013 production of "Arcadia.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/purdue-features-students-who-are-making-news.html
<Content> Purdue features students who are 'making news'
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University is highlighting five students who are focusing on different aspects of mass communication, including meteorology, photography and journalism.
 Purdue Marketing and Media has developed a website at https://www.purdue.edu/fivestudents/news-makers/index.html that includes information about the students and their career aspirations.
 * Abigail Maurer of Bargersville, Ind., a senior studying agricultural communication. She attended a writing course at the World Journalism Institute last summer and hopes to become a freelance writer covering food and people.
 * James Parish of Bath, Ohio, a senior studying atmospheric science. He delivers weather on "Fast Track," Purdue's student-produced television news, and has interned in meteorology departments at two news stations in Ohio during past summers.
 * Angela Petrie of Fort Wayne, Ind., a junior studying communication. She is interested in a career in public relations and advertising and is currently working at Purdue's Center for Career Opportunities, where she designs, edits and manages the center's brand across various platforms.
 * Elena Sparger of West Lafayette, Ind., a freshman studying English. She is interested in a career focused on writing and is gaining experience as a reporter at The Exponent, the student newspaper, and as a judge for "The Bell Tower," Purdue's undergraduate student creative writing magazine.
 * Steven Yang of Honolulu, Hawaii., a senior studying mass communication. He is working as a photographer for Purdue Marketing and Media and previously was photo editor at The Exponent.
 Steven Yang, seyang@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/purdue-focuses-on-growing-global-leaders-at-2012-indiana-black-expo.html
<Content> Purdue focuses on growing global leaders at 2012 Indiana Black Expo
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Encouraging youth to develop academic and community service skills as well as preparing to be global leaders are the themes Purdue University is supporting at the 42nd annual Summer Celebration of the 
Indiana Black Expo. The Expo started July 12 and concludes on July 22 in Indianapolis. Purdue is sponsoring the Youth Leadership Summit July 20-22, which is themed "Growing Global Leaders.
" The three-day event encourages youth, ages 11-18, to focus on their academic, personal and community service goals and develop leadership skills.
 "We are excited to partner with Indiana Black Expo to help young people in the state of Indiana acquire critical life skills as well as understand themselves as global citizens and leaders," said G.
 Christine Taylor, vice provost for diversity and chief diversity officer at Purdue. "We also want them to think seriously about preparing for college, and we want them to be aware of all the excellent opportunities that are available at Purdue.
" Purdue will again host the Super Friday initiative on Friday (July 20). Taylor said the program, open to all youth ages 11-18, is expected to draw up to 300 students from around Indiana.
 Students from Michigan also attended last year, she said. As part of the Friday event, representatives from several colleges and departments will have display tables with interactive activities for students designed to increase awareness about academic programs and related initiatives at Purdue.
 Workshop topics for the rest of the youth summit will include preparing for college, developing strong leadership skills and effective event planning.
 "Through the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), which was founded here at Purdue, one of the highlights will be a real-time conversation, through Skype, with students in Ghana," Taylor said.
 "Virginia Booth-Gleghorn, director of the Minority Engineering Program at Purdue, is working on an EPICS project in Ghana with a group of Purdue students, and there is a NSBE chapter in Ghana.
 We are excited to connect Indiana students to Ghanaian students to discuss global leadership in the 21st century." Purdue also will sponsor an exhibition booth where visitors can learn more about the university through several hands-on activities.
 Taylor said many people support Purdue’s efforts at the Summer Celebration. "This is a collaborative initiative with many partners throughout the university," she said.
 "We will have a very strong and engaged institutional presence at this year's event through our participation in the youth empowerment summit and the Exhibition Hall.
 We invite people to stop by to see Purdue's booth." The Expo's Summer Celebration is the largest ethnic and cultural event of its kind in the nation and attracts more than 350,000 attendees annually.
 It provides networking, educational, career and cultural opportunities for participants. Through events such as the celebration, the Expo generates resources to support its key initiatives, including education.
 Since 1984, the Expo has awarded more than $2 million in scholarships to 2,000 Indiana students. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-focuses-on-youth-at-2013-indiana-black-expo.html
<Content> Purdue focuses on youth at 2013 Indiana Black Expo
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Helping prepare youth to be global leaders will be Purdue University's focus at the 43rd annual Summer Celebration of the Indiana Black Expo
. The Expo started July 11 and concludes Sunday (July 21) in Indianapolis. Purdue is sponsoring the Youth Leadership Summit, which is themed "Growing Global Leaders," from Friday (July 19) through Sunday.
 It will be at the Hyatt Regency hotel, 1 S. Capitol Ave., in downtown Indianapolis. The event encourages youth, ages 11-18, to focus on their academic, personal and community service goals and to develop leadership skills.
 "The youth leadership summit will provide students with skill sets necessary to develop effective leadership in a global context," said G.
 Christine Taylor, vice provost for diversity and chief diversity officer at Purdue. "It fits nicely with Purdue's strategic plan of launching tomorrow's leaders.
" "We're anticipating more than 350 students this year," she said. "The planning committee has engaged in strategic outreach, networking and advertising with the expected outcome of increasing participation of Indiana students.
 The students will have an opportunity to look closer at academic opportunities presented through Purdue University. All of our academic colleges will present interactive opportunities with the student participants.
 In addition to the colleges, there will be representatives from the Center for Career Opportunities as well as the Purdue University Police Department.
" Workshop topics for the rest of the youth summit include preparing for college, developing strong leadership skills and effective event planning.
 Purdue also will sponsor an exhibition where visitors can learn more about the university through several hands-on activities. "The booth not only gives us a strong presence at Expo, it also exposes students, parents and everybody else to what is happening at Purdue," Taylor said.
 Also at the Summer Celebration, Jesse Moore, director of supplier diversity development at Purdue, was recognized as the Mayor's Minority and Women Business Enterprise Advocate of the Year.
 Moore was honored on Monday (July 15) during the Indiana Black Expo Mayor's Breakfast at the Indiana Convention Center in Indianapolis.
 Moore is the first and only director of Purdue's Office of Supplier Diversity. The office was created in 2005 to help minority- and women-owned businesses work with the university.
 Greater Lafayette Commerce honored the office with the Diversity Roundtable 2010 Workforce Diversity Best Practices Award. Moore helped start Relationship to Partnerships Sessions at Purdue.
 The annual program brings diverse firms to campus to meet with Purdue buyers. In addition to his work at Purdue, Moore volunteers with the Hanna Community Center and the Greater Lafayette Indiana Black Expo.
 The Expo's Summer Celebration is the largest ethnic and cultural event of its kind in the nation and attracts more than 350,000 attendees annually.
 It provides networking, educational, career and cultural opportunities for participants. Through events such as the celebration, the Expo generates resources to support its key initiatives, including education.
 Since 1984, the Expo has awarded more than $2 million in scholarships to more than 2,000 Indiana students. Source: G. Christine Taylor, 765-494-6969, 
taylorgc@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-forage-specialist-evaluate-alfalfa-stands-this-fall.html
<Content> Purdue forage specialist: Evaluate alfalfa stands this fall
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Farmers should not ignore alfalfa fields after the final harvest of the season but instead should assess stands to determine if any limestone, nutrients or reseeding plans are necessary, a Purdue Extension forage specialist says.
 Alfalfa is a high-quality forage well suited as a component of many rations for ruminant livestock and horses. The perennial plant requires a higher soil pH, ranging from 6.6 to 7.2, than most other forages and agronomic crops.
 Because changing soil pH can take time, Keith Johnson said producers should look at their alfalfa stands now to see if they are adequate or if new seeding should be planned in the spring of 2014.
 "Producers should evaluate the density of the stand and determine if soil fertility, diseases, too frequent harvest or other stresses might be the reason for the decline," he said.
 Over time, alfalfa plant density naturally lessens. Thickening a stand is difficult because alfalfa does not readily reseed itself, and over seeding is not successful because of competition with existing plants and autotoxicity - a process in which established alfalfa produces a chemical that can reduce establishment and growth of new plants.
 According to Purdue University research, a satisfactory population is approximately 35 well-growing stems per square foot. Knowing the plant density gives producers a benchmark to measure how well their alfalfa is doing.
 "If the stand is thin, it may be wise to consider establishing a new field in 2014," Johnson said. When choosing a new field location, growers need to remember that alfalfa prefers a well-drained and deep soil.
 They also need to review labels of herbicides used in fields in 2013 for the plant-back restriction for alfalfa. "If a soil test has not been taken in the past couple of years it would be advised to get one taken immediately," he said.
 "If soil pH is low, growers should follow through with limestone application yet this fall. Soil pH change is not immediate after limestone application, so getting it applied at least six months in advance of seeding is best.
" Information about alfalfa production is available in Purdue Extension's Forage Field Guide. The guides can be purchased for $7 each from Purdue Extension's 
The Education Store by searching ID-317.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-galleries-presents-a-big-fat-scary-deal-and-an-intro-to-its-collection.html
<Content> Purdue Galleries presents a 'Big Fat Scary Deal' and an 'INTRO' to its collection
 Mende Bundu Helmet Mask, wood, pigment, fiber, metals, glass beads, Sierra Leone, mid 20th century (Purdue Galleries Permanent Collection) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. –Purdue University Galleries this month will open two new exhibits - one an examination of scary art - and the other a selection of artwork from their own collection, selected and commented on by community members.
 "BFSD (Big Fat Scary Deal)" will be presented from Oct. 21 through Dec. 7 in the Robert L. Ringel Gallery in Stewart Center. Challenging the assumption that equates art's quality with its beauty and with appealing imagery, "Big Fat Scary Deal"
 presents an exhibition of 20 contemporary artists whose work is dedicated to the edgy, weird, unsettling and scary. Attractive on a formal level but disturbing in realized subject matter, these works stretch and question the relevance of aesthetic beauty and our preconceived notions of "fitting" artistic subjects.
 Selections were made from nationwide submissions by Elizabeth K. Mix, associate professor of art history at Butler University; Tess Cortés, coordinator of the Robert & Elaine Stein Galleries at Wright State University; and Craig Martin, director of Purdue University Galleries.
 In her essay for the exhibition, Mix says art has the ability to reveal our fears and address them, in many cases through laughter.
 "This need for fear to stimulate laughter is a staple in our contemporary culture, epitomized by the 'Scream' movie franchise. We should not feel guilty when we laugh, though, for our laughter is "an involuntary response to situations which cannot be handled any other way, regardless of the sophistication of the audience.
" (Geoffrey Harpham, "The Grotesque: First Principles," Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism 34 (1974)" Margaret Jeckor, "Stranger in Town," porcelain, clay, 1980.
 (Purdue Galleries Permanent Collection) Download Photo Included in the exhibit are artworks in a wide array of media by: Wayne Bertola, Chicago; Gabriella Boros, Skokie, Ill.; Bridgette Broughman, Alexandria, Va.; Kathy Bruce, New York City; Maria DiFranco, Columbus, Ohio; James Dykes, Seattle; Kristen Gallerneaux, San Diego; Christopher Gideon, Royal Oak, Mich.; Sean Gill, Brooklyn, N.Y.; Kelsey Hall, Oconomowoc, Wis.; William Harroff, Edwardsville, Ill.; Michael Hecht, New Bedford, Mass.; Marina Kuchinski, Wheaton, Ill.; Fred Lisaius, Newcastle, Wash.; Joshua Myers, Mishawaka, Ind.; Amber Prouty, Missoula, Mont.; Reagan D.
 Pufall, San Francisco; Jake Reller, Bellingham, Wash.; Lindsay Taylor, Brooklyn, N.Y.; and Jave Yoshimoto, Alva, Okla. From 5:30-7 p.m.
, Oct 30, Purdue Galleries will host an opening reception for the "Big Fat Scary Deal" exhibition in the Robert L. Ringel Gallery in Stewart Center.
 The event features free mask-making activities presented by volunteers from the Purdue Student chapter of the National Art Education Association.
 "INTRO" will be presented from Oct. 22 through Dec. 7 in the new Fountain Gallery in downtown Lafayette. As its title suggests, this exhibit will serve as an introduction to the local community, as Galleries has recently stepped off the campus footprint and created a new gallery presence in the Perrin Building in downtown Lafayette.
 The "INTRO" exhibition features artworks from the Purdue Galleries collection that have been selected and commented on by a group of community contributors.
 Their personal responses are shared alongside the artwork so visitors get a less formal perspective on these valuable works, based on comments from people in the Lafayette-West Lafayette community.
 Purdue Galleries director Craig Martin invited a number of people active in the arts to make selections of their favorite works in the collection, or works that had personal appeal to them.
 They were then asked to write brief statements about the works, emphasizing their honest personal reactions. "How did the work make you feel when you first saw it?
 What does its subject or message mean to you? And, yes, what does your knowledge of the artist or the work's origin (if you happen to know these) contribute to your appreciation?
" Participants were encouraged to speak expressively and even poetically about their choices. The resulting narratives will be displayed with the artwork, providing a unique perspective for a visitor that isn't dependent upon art historical analysis, but rather on personal reflection.
 From 6- 7 p.m., Oct. 24, Purdue Galleries will host an opening reception for the "INTRO" exhibition at the Fountain Gallery in downtown Lafayette.
 The Robert L. Ringel Gallery is located in Stewart Center on the main campus of Purdue University. The gallery is open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
 Mondays through Saturdays, and until 8 p.m. Thursdays. The Fountain Gallery is located at 330 Main Street, Lafayette, in the historic Perrin Building.
 The gallery is open noon to 7 p.m. Tuesdays through Saturdays. All Purdue Galleries exhibitions and events are free and open to the public.
 For class and group visits, contact Craig Martin at Purdue Galleries at 765-494-3061. For more information, visit http://www.purdue.edu/galleries
 Contact: Craig Martin, 765-494-3061, cdmartin@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-gay-and-lesbian-professionals-sponsor-second-film-festival.html
<Content> Purdue gay and lesbian professionals sponsor second film festival
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. —The Purdue University chapter of the National Organization of Gay and Lesbian Scientists and Technical Professionals is hosting its second annual film festival.
 The public event, which runs from Sunday (April 14) though April 20, will show a variety of films from nine different countries (Brazil, Canada, Germany, India, Iran, Israel, Italy, South Africa and the United States).
 "The movies showcase the triumphs and struggles that the LGBTQIA (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans*, Queer/Questioning, Intersex, Asexual and Ally) community encounters all around the world in diverse ethnic and cultural settings," said Gabriel Sosa, the organization's president.
 "No matter where you are in the world, LGBTQIA individuals are part of society." The films explore the intersections of faith, race, age, national origin, gender identity and expression, marital status, disability status and sexual orientation.
 Genres range from comedy and short film to horror and documentary. There are no tickets required for any of the screenings, all of which take place on Purdue's campus.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-graduate-engineering-online-program-ranked-4th-by-u.s.news.html
<Content> Purdue graduate engineering online program ranked 4th by U.S.News
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University's College of Engineering online graduate engineering program is fourth in the U.S.News & World Report's Best Online Programs rankings.
 The rankings were released Tuesday (Jan. 15) and can be seen at http://www.usnews.com/education/online-education Purdue's Division of Engineering Professional Education delivers six different master's degrees entirely online, said Dale Harris, the division's executive director.
 In 2012 there were more than 600 active distance students pursuing one of the different degree options. Over the past several years, the program has shown consistent growth of about 14 percent a year.
 "Our mission is to provide quality educational opportunities to engineers and computer scientists with careers in progress," said Harris, who also is a professor of engineering education.
 "We're happy to be recognized by U.S.News & World Report for doing it well. Our success starts with the extraordinarily high quality of the Purdue faculty who instruct our distance classes.
 "We support instruction with world-class student services, distance-course production and delivery, and curriculum innovation. Graduate education is increasingly important in ensuring personal and collective competitiveness within the technical professions and quality online programs are critical to meeting that need.
" Purdue University's College of Engineering is embarking on a program to increase its faculty by 30 percent over the next five years.
 The additional faculty will allow the college to grow enrollment and expand the breadth and depth of its research efforts. In a statement on its website, U.S.News & World Report said it does the rankings because the number of students in online degree programs is "growing rapidly" and "prospective students lack needed information to help them determine the relative strengths and weaknesses between online degree programs.
" The magazine's rankings are based on peer reputation (25 percent), student engagement (23 percent), faculty credentials and training (23 percent), student services and technology support (17 percent), and admissions selectivity (12 percent).
 Source: Dale Harris, 765-494-0212, harris@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-grapevine-series-presents-wine-buying-how-to.html
<Content> Purdue 'Grapevine' series presents wine-buying how-to
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Picking out a bottle of wine to go with that holiday dinner you are attending or hosting is a task made simple if you follow advice offered in the final two parts of a Purdue University 
online series on Indiana's wine grape industry. Part 9 of the "Through the Grapevine," released Tuesday (Nov. 5), takes the mystery out of wine tasting and helps shoppers pick out the right bottle of wine for their hosts, guests or just for themselves.
 They also will become more "label literate" by learning what terms such as "reserve" and "estate" on the label mean. The final installment, Part 10 next week, will help novice wine shoppers know how to properly serve and store wine.
 "We're billing the final parts of the wine series as a two-part guide to wine-buying for the frightened," said Natalie van Hoose
, writer of the series by the Purdue Department of Agricultural Communication. "You may feel intimidated by that wall of wines at the supermarket, but you really shouldn't.
 Just relax and enjoy discovering what you like and just how diverse wines really are. " Part 9 includes interviews with Indiana winemakers who welcome all wine drinkers - from the timid beginner to the seasoned pro - into their tasting rooms.
 "One of the great things about an Indiana tasting room is that you have a chance to try a variety of wines in a warm, friendly environment," van Hoose said.
 "The stuffy, formal atmosphere you might imagine is not the reality in Indiana wineries. You can belly up to the bar in your jeans and baseball cap and expect to have a great time.
 " </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-healthcare-advisors-celebrates-national-health-it-week-sept.-16-20.html
<Content> Purdue Healthcare Advisors celebrates National Health IT Week Sept. 16-20
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — (Monday, September 16, 2013) — Purdue Healthcare Advisors (PHA) and others across the U.S. have joined together to celebrate National Health Information Technology Week, Sept.
 16-20, to mark the important role health information technology plays in improving health care delivery. “For the past three years, Purdue has worked to ensure that health IT in Indiana is integrated, interactive, interoperable and intelligent,” said Randy Hountz, director of the Purdue Regional Extension Center, a division of PHA.
 “We support National Health IT Week because healthcare reform is not possible without system-wide adoption of health IT to improve the quality of healthcare delivery, increase patient safety, decrease medical errors, and strengthen the interaction between patients and healthcare providers.
” Today more than 38 percent of physicians nationwide have adopted a basic electronic health records system and more than 145,000 providers — supported by Regional Extension Centers nationwide — are moving through the stages of Meaningful Use.
 Meaningful Use (MU) is a set of federal standards that governs the use of electronic health records (EHRs). The Purdue Regional Extension Center (PurdueREC), a division of PHA, has enrolled more than 2,500 providers in the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Meaningful Use Incentives Program; has helped more than 1,500 providers and over 50 hospitals collect more than $105 million in government incentives; and has provided direct financial support in excess of $10 million to Indiana providers achieving “meaningful use” of EHRs.
 As specialists in working with all EHR vendors certified by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT, the PurdueREC provides direct, hands-on assistance to MU incentives-eligible providers in hospitals, clinics, and large or small provider practices.
 Assistance includes Meaningful Use attestation support, metrics monitoring, training, readiness assessments, and workflow analyses.
 To support providers as they attest to EHR Meaningful Use, PHA directs much of its effort into ensuring providers are compliant with the MU program’s stringent security guidelines, which are designed to safeguard patient health information.
 To that end, PHA provides Meaningful Use Security Compliancy Assessments; HIPAA Security Rule Compliancy Assessments; as well as support for encryption; secure wireless migration; disaster recovery planning; and vulnerability analysis.
 Purdue Healthcare Advisors (PHA) is a healthcare consulting resource from Purdue University specializing in affordable assistance to healthcare associations and providers focused on improving care, managing margins and facilitating compliance.
 As not-for-profit consultants aligned with healthcare transformation, PHA combines the global resources of Purdue with deep clinical healthcare knowledge, advanced Lean methodologies, EHR best practices, and Health IT security/privacy expertise.
 www.pha.purdue.edu About National Health Information Technology Week Now in its eighth year, National Health IT Week is a collaborative forum assembling key healthcare constituents—vendors, provider organizations, payers, pharmaceutical/biotech companies, government agencies, industry/professional associations, research foundations, and consumer protection groups— working together to elevate national attention to the necessity of advancing health IT.
 www.healthitweek.org </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-helps-bring-splashcon-to-indianapolis-provides-unique-opportunity-to-indiana-computer-science-students.html
<Content> Purdue helps bring SplashCon to Indianapolis; provides unique opportunity to Indiana computer science students
 Purdue helps bring SplashCon to Indianapolis; provides unique opportunity to Indiana computer science students WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 — Computer scientists from Purdue University led the organization of the 2013 Splash Conference, and helped bring the top software development conference to Indianapolis.
 Purdue's Antony Hosking and Patrick Eugster are co-chairs of this year's conference, which focuses on solving problems faced by the software industry, including ways to improve tools the average person uses daily like smartphones, Facebook and Google.
 The conference will run from Oct. 26-31 at the Hyatt Regency in Indianapolis. "This is the first time this important conference has been held in our area and is easily accessible to students in Indiana and the Midwest," said Hosking, an associate professor of computer science.
 “There are already more than 30 Purdue undergraduate students signed up to go for whom travel to past locations would have been prohibitively expensive.
 We really want to encourage students to take advantage of this opportunity to learn from giants in the field and to network with other students and industry representatives.
" Attendees come from both industry and academia, and many participants are highly distinguished innovators and educators, he said.
 Purdue students can attend the conference for free on Tuesday (Oct. 29) and the university is providing bus transportation from the West Lafayette campus to and from the conference for any students within the area.
 Students interested in riding the bus should contact Pat Morgan at pam@cs.purdue.edu. New to the conference this year is a speaker series featuring well-known industry figures discussing what it is like to work in the industry and what students need to do to achieve their goals, Hosking said.
 The conference also has broadened its education series, "Splash-E," and will feature a discussion of ways to engage students and implement the new "curriculum 13," a national computer science curriculum established by the Association for Computing Machinery, or ACM, and IEEE; and a panel discussion of massive open online courses, or MOOCs.
 In addition to Hosking and Eugster, others from Purdue participating in the conference are professors Suresh Jagannathan, Jan Vitek and Xiangyu Zhang; graduate students Tao Bao and Gregor Richards; and affiliate Tomas Kalibera.
 The Splash Conference is an ACM special interest group on programming languages, or SIGPLAN, conference dedicated to the art and science of software development.
 Its first official instance was in 2010. SPLASH has its roots in OOPSLA, a long-standing research conference in Object-Oriented Programming.
 Source: Antony Hosking, hosking@cs.purdue.edu, 765-494-6010</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/purdue-highlights-students-with-boilermaker-family-ties.html
<Content> Purdue highlights students with Boilermaker family ties
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue is recognizing five students with Purdue family legacies that extend for decades or are just getting started.
 Purdue Marketing and Media has developed a website at https://dev.www.purdue.edu/fivestudents/legacy-makers/index.html that includes information about the students and their family connections.
 Bailey Farrer of Royal Center, Ind., a sophomore studying animal sciences. Farrer, who will be the 25th family member to graduate from Purdue, grew up showing livestock and participating in 4-H.
 She was named Reserve Supreme Showman at the Indiana State Fair in 2008 and is Miss Cass County 2012 and runner-up to the 2012 Indiana State Fair queen.
 Samantha Feulner of Bloomington, Minn., is a junior studying computer science. Feulner, who will be the 14th family member to graduate from Purdue, is part of the women's swimming and diving team.
 Vanessa Hale of Augusta, Ga., is a doctoral candidate in biological sciences. Hale, who will be the ninth family member to graduate from Purdue, spent three years with Teach for America at a high school in Crownpoint, N.M.
, before pursuing graduate school at Purdue. She also volunteers as a veterinarian at the Wildcat Creek Wildlife Center. Chris Hanselman of 
New Palestine, Ind., is a junior in chemical engineering. His parents, and an aunt and uncle graduated from Purdue. Haneselman is one of six first-year students to receive the Beering Scholarship, which covers educational expenses for his undergraduate and graduate studies at Purdue.
 Pablo Puente of Santa Cruz, Bolivia, is a senior in management. He was born in Bolivia but grew up in Lafayette, and he is the third Puente son to attend Purdue.
 Puente is preparing to go to law school to focus on corporate law, and he worked as an intern at J.P. Morgan in Manhattan last summer.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-historian-named-president-elect-of-the-society-of-civil-war-historians.html
<Content> Purdue historian named president-elect of the Society of Civil War Historians
 Caroline E. Janney, a Purdue University associate professor of history, has been selected as the 2014-16 president of the Society of Civil War Historians.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Caroline E. Janney, a Purdue University associate professor of history, has been selected as the 2014-16 president of the Society of Civil War Historians.
 Janney's research focuses on Civil War history and memory. She is the author "Remembering the Civil War: Reunion and the Limits of Reconciliation" and "Burying the Dead but Not the Past: Ladies' Memorial Associations and the Lost Cause.
" She is an expert in the role the southern women in Ladies' Memorial Associations played after the Civil War in memorializing and honoring Confederate soldiers.
 She is currently president-elect and will serve as president from 2014-2016. Her presidency falls during the 150th anniversary of the four-year war that took place 1861-1865.
 "I am especially looking forward to this role during a time when there is so much excitement and enthusiasm about this time in America's history," Janney said.
 "I am honored that I was selected, and look forward to collaborating with the nation's best Civil War historians." The Society of Civil War Historians began in 1984 and it publishes the 
Journal of the Civil War Era and awards the annual Tom Watson Brown Book Prize for the best book on the Civil War. Florida Atlantic University serves as the organizational home for the Society of Civil War Historians and Penn State's Richards Civil War Era Center co-sponsors the journal and manages the biennial conference.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-historian-takes-international-look-at-famous-lincoln-douglas-rivalry.html
<Content> Purdue historian takes international look at famous Lincoln-Douglas rivalry
 Robert E. May, a Purdue professor of American history and author of "Slavery, Race and Conquest in the Tropics," says the many accounts of the rivalry between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas often neglect their differing opinions and arguments about expanding slavery outside of the United States.
 May's new book focuses on what Lincoln did to stop slavery's growth southward, while Douglas, the U.S. senator from Illinois, wanted the United States to own much or all of Latin America even if slavery went along with it.
 (Purdue University photo/Steven Yang) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The many accounts of the rivalry between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas often neglect their differing opinions and arguments about expanding slavery outside of the United States, says a Purdue University historian.
 "Many historians writing about the causes of the Civil War do so without mentioning the contentious issue of new United States slave states in the tropics, including Cuba and Mexico," says Robert E.
 May, a professor of American history. "While forgotten today, the possibility helped ignite Lincoln's feud with Douglas and the southern outrage at Lincoln's election that led to the Civil War.
 The United States did not go to war because Lincoln and his Republican party intended to end slavery in the South, but rather because Republicans intended to stop slavery's growth in Latin America as well as in Kansas and the West.
 It's critical to understand what caused the war that still resonates with so many people today." This is the 150th anniversary of the Civil War, which was fought from 1861-1865.
 May's new book, "Slavery, Race and Conquest in the Tropics" was published this month by Cambridge University Press. The book focuses on Lincoln's doing everything he could to stop slavery's growth southward, while Douglas, the U.S.
 senator from Illinois, wanted the United States to own much or all of Latin America even if slavery went along with it. May's research also provides new findings on Lincoln's surprising and controversial attempt in the midst of the Civil War to colonize blacks in Haiti as a step toward ending U.S.
 slavery. Historians, May says, often misunderstand the relation between Lincoln's colony and the Emancipation Proclamation. "Lincoln came to see Latin America as a variant of the West, and the western United States was where poor northern whites could go to seek their fortunes and a new life.
 Lincoln saw the same opportunities for free blacks in Latin America," May says. "But the attempt became an embarrassment. Many died, and the colonists had to be rescued by the Navy.
 Confederate propagandists had a field day making fun of Lincoln for claiming to care about black people yet sending them to Haiti to die.
" May's book includes biographies of Douglas and Lincoln and their relationship, which began in the Illinois statehouse, and it shows how news of slave state plots to spread slavery to Latin America kept recycling through their careers and affecting their rivalry for the presidency.
 "The Lincoln-Douglas rivalry is arguably the most famous political rivalry in America's history, and yet one of the most contentious things they argued about, including in six of the seven famous Lincoln-Douglas debates, is often entirely missing from the history books," May says.
 "There are many books about the rivalry that don't even mention the word Cuba in them or slavery's spread to Mexico and Central America.
 Most people don't know the full story because there has been so much preoccupation with the issue of slavery expansion into Kansas.
" May says that while the Civil War is often studied through a domestic lens, more of an international perspective is starting to emerge.
 In the last 10 years, historians have written about the South's trade, diplomacy and cultural ties with Latin American countries leading up to the Civil War, as well as Southern aggressions to take them over.
 "Lincoln was opposed to expansion and imperialistic policies, and his philosophy is something that we can learn from today," May says.
 "He gave a different model for the United States to follow: He believed America was the last great hope for democracy and it should be a model of democracy instead of a conquering democracy.
 When he died there was an outpouring of grief in Latin American countries with days of mourning. If America today followed his non-interventionist approach to foreign policy, we'd probably have better relations with countries like Venezuela.
" The timeline in May's book begins in the 1840s as United States policies began to focus more internationally under presidents John Tyler and James Polk with Texas annexation and the Mexican War.
 Prior to this time, Lincoln and Douglas were focused on Illinois state politics, but their political careers ascended as America's international interests expanded.
 May's research is based especially on Lincoln's and Douglas's correspondence, congressional documents, private papers of other politicians, contemporary newspapers and collections from the National Archives.
 His work is supported by Purdue's Department of History. May also is author of "John A. Quitman: Old South Crusader," a biography of the so-called father of secession in Mississippi, and "The Southern Dream of a Caribbean Empire, 1854-1861," and "Manifest Destiny's Underworld: Filibustering in Antebellum America.
" He also has edited a Purdue University Press title on the diplomacy of the Civil War - "The Union, the Confederacy, and the Atlantic Rim" - explaining why the Confederacy failed to receive enough foreign aid to win the war.
 Note to Journalists: Journalists interested in a review copy can contact Frances Bajet, associate publicity manager at Cambridge University Press, 212-337-5057, 
fbajet@cambridge.org </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q1/purdue-in-princeton-reviews-top-150-best-value-colleges.html
<Content> Purdue in Princeton Review's top 150 'best value' colleges
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University is listed among the Princeton Review's 150 "best value" colleges for 2012, released Tuesday (Feb.
 7).The education services and test-prep company says the list, which appeared in USA Today, "is considered a guide for prospective college applicants to seek out the best value for their money.
"The listing is based on an analysis from surveys conducted from fall 2010 through fall 2011. The top 10 public and private "best values" are ranked; the rest are listed alphabetically.
It is the second time this academic year that Purdue has been recognized for being a good value. In August, SmartMoney magazine ranked Purdue seventh nationally in its college "payback" survey, which quantified the long-term value of a college degree.
"This survey is more evidence that Purdue is a tremendous value," said Timothy D. Sands, executive vice president for academic affairs and provost.
 "Our students obtain an excellent education at a reasonable price. That's why we're attracting the best students."Schools on the best value list were selected based on surveys of administrators and students at more than 650 public and private colleges and universities.
 Selection criteria included more than 30 factors in academics, costs and financial aid.Robert Franek, Best Value Colleges lead author, told USA Today that value is about more than just "a low sticker price.
 The commitment has to be much deeper than that."Tuition at Purdue for the 2011-12 academic year is $9,478 for in-state students and $27,646 for out-of-state students.
 The average SAT score for current Purdue freshmen is 1,325 on the critical reading, math and writing sections.The Princeton Review summary says, in part, "When people think of Purdue University, what usually comes to mind is its outstanding engineering and agricultural programs, but students pursuing other degrees want you to know there are 'many other prestigious majors.
' ""Regardless of your major, 'Purdue prepares students to be leaders by helping them grow personally and professionally during their collegiate years through a combination of strong academic programs, leadership opportunities and social activities.
' 'It provides one-of-a-kind experiences in research, professors and organizations.' "Other universities in the state included in the "best value" survey are DePauw University, Hanover College, Indiana University and the University of Notre Dame.
 In addition to Purdue and Indiana, other Big Ten universities ranked include the University of Illinois, University of Michigan, University of Minnesota, Northwestern University and Ohio State University.
 Writer: Greg McClure, 765-496-9711, gmcclure@purdue.eduSource: Timothy Sands, 765-494-9709, tsands@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-innovation-could-help-people-with-severe-hearing-loss.html
<Content> Purdue innovation could help people with severe hearing loss
 Joshua Alexander, assistant professor in Purdue University's Department of Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences, tests hearing aids used by Mel Chua, Purdue doctoral candidate in engineering education, in his laboratory.
 Alexander has created a computer algorithm that could make it possible for hearing aids to help people with severe hearing loss to hear high-frequency sounds such as "s," "sh," "f" and "th.
" (Purdue Research Foundation photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Mel Chua, a Purdue University doctoral candidate in engineering education, received her current set of hearing aids in May 2012.
 She has severe hearing loss but has not worn hearing aids most of her adult life because they did not offer a significant improvement to her hearing.
 "I got my first hearing aids before I started kindergarten," she said. "I refused to wear them in fifth grade, and I more or less went without them except for brief interludes at ages 16 and 20.
 I tried them at those times and decided they weren't helping me." Chua said hearing aids didn't help her because she was still missing a lot of speech sounds, especially high-frequency sounds, like "s" and "sh.
" "When I competed in school and district spelling bees in elementary and middle school, I had to ask if the word I was supposed to spell was singular or plural," she said.
 "I couldn't hear the high-frequency 's' sound at the end of words." An innovation developed by a Purdue researcher in the College of Health and Human Sciences
 may make it possible for people with severe hearing loss, like Chua, to hear high-frequency sounds like "s," "sh," "f" and "th."
 Joshua Alexander, an assistant professor in Purdue's Department of Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences, explained why conventional hearing aids do not help listeners with severe hearing loss.
 "People with severe hearing loss have lost the ability to hear certain pitches, and most commonly they're the highest pitches," he said.
 "Current hearing aid technology works best for people with some residual ability to hear these pitches, but there are too many challenges for it to help listeners with a very restricted pitch range.
" Alexander tested variants of existing hearing aid technology, which use algorithms to move information from higher pitches into a lower pitch range.
 "Those who need this technology the most are people like Mel. Unfortunately, because their pitch range is so limited, everything is placed into a very narrow area which makes different speech sounds too similar to one another.
 There is less to separate them," he said. "Listeners have to relearn how to perceive a lot of information in the new pitch range, assuming the sounds can be made different from one another in the first place.
" Rather than design an algorithm and hope that listeners' perception would accommodate to it, Alexander discovered what listeners needed to enhance perception in the new pitch range.
 He then designed an algorithm to accommodate these perceptual needs. "Unlike other algorithms that simply shift high-frequency sounds to a lower pitch range, this algorithm mirrors and flips them.
 By moving the highest pitched speech sounds, like 's,' to the lowest pitches, the listener can more easily relearn them because they are still different from other speech sounds in the mid-pitch range, like 'sh,' " he said.
 "This also means the listener doesn't need to relearn the speech sounds in the mid-pitch range because the algorithm hasn't displaced them as far.
 Most of the change is at the extremities." Alexander said the algorithm takes advantage of other differences between speech sounds to enhance perception, and that multiple features can be customized for each listener.
 It is meant to complement existing hearing-aid technology rather than compete against it, and it may even be used in conjunction with cochlear implants, which are surgically implanted electronic devices.
 "A new protocol is to give the person with a cochlear implant a hearing aid, too. Implants give the high pitches that a listener is missing, but not the low," he said.
 "The algorithm could provide redundancy as the listener hears high pitches from both the implant and the hearing aid." Alexander spoke about his innovation during the International Hearing Aid Conference in Lake Tahoe, Calif.
 He has received funding from a National Institutes of Health Challenge Grant and Purdue's Entrepreneurial Leadership Academy. The next steps to develop the innovation include finding partners to fully test the algorithm, place it in hearing aids and validate it with additional testing.
 The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization has filed a patent application on Alexander's algorithm. For more information about developing and commercializing this innovation, contact the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization at 765-588-3479, 
otcpatent@prf.org. The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-innovation-could-improve-personalized-cancer-care-outcomes.html
<Content> Purdue innovation could improve personalized cancer-care outcomes
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - An innovation created by Purdue University researchers could improve therapy selection for personalized cancer care by helping specialists better identify the most effective drug treatment combinations for patients.
 David D. Nolte, a professor in Purdue's Department of Physics, and his collaborators Ran An, a graduate student in physics, and John J.
 Turek in the Department of Basic Medical Sciences have created a technique called BioDynamic Imaging that measures the activity inside cancer biopsies, or samples of cells.
 It allows technicians to assess the efficacy of drug combinations, called regimens, on personal cancers. "Technicians can use BioDynamic Imaging to measure tumor response to cancer therapy, such as metabolism and cell division.
 This can tell how well the drug is working and if there are side effects," Nolte said. "Our approach is called phenotypic testing, which is more pertinent than genetic testing because it captures the holistic response of cancer to chemotherapy.
" "No two cancers are alike," Nolte said. "Therefore, every patient needs his or her own selected therapy to get the best results.
" Nolte said BioDynamic Imaging has other applications, including drug discovery and improving success rates for in vitro fertilization.
 "BioDynamic Imaging is a new type of imaging that has broad uses and many applications," he said. "In IVF clinics, it can select the most viable embryos for implantation, improving pregnancy rates and decreasing the risk of having twins or triplets.
 It also can be used on a large scale to help search for new types of drugs." Animated Dynamics LLC, based in the Purdue Research Park, is commercializing the BioDynamic Imaging technology.
 The company will manufacture the first commercial units for laboratories and clinics for testing and appraisal. The company won first place and $30,000 in the 
2013 Burton D. Morgan Business Plan Competition. Purdue University's patented technologies include new cancer treatments, to alternative fuels, biomedical devices, crop improvement and others and are available for licensing through the Office of Technology Commercialization.
 For more information, call 765-588-3475, email otcip@prf.org or visit http://www.otc-prf.org The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization
 operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States. Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 David D. Nolte, 765-494-3013, dnolte@anidyn.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-innovation-kills-waterborne-microorganisms,-produces-safer-drinking-water.html
<Content> Purdue innovation kills waterborne microorganisms, produces safer drinking water
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Whether turning on a tap to fill a container or drinking from a fountain, people in developed countries normally have readily available and inexpensive access to a clean, safe water supply.
 That is not the case for more than 800 million people in developing countries, according to Ernest "Chip" R. Blatchley III, professor of 
civil engineering and environmental and ecological engineering at Purdue University. Blatchley and other researchers are working to provide safe water supplies for these people by using ultraviolet (UV) radiation from the sun to purify water.
 "Millions of people in developing countries do not have readily available water, or they become sick because of the water they drink," he said.
 "People in these countries may not have the infrastructure or financial resources to clean the water, deliver it and keep it clean until it's used.
 Common problems include microbial pathogens, which are largely associated with human and animal waste." Blatchley and Bruce Applegate, associate professor of 
food science and biological sciences at Purdue University, have developed prototypes of a water disinfection system to take advantage of UV radiation from the sun, which is plentiful in many areas where clean water is lacking.
 "If you take a global view of people who have little or no access to safe water, you'll see that most live close to the equator," Blatchley said.
 "Bruce, student researchers and I have created prototypes that disinfect water by amplifying and concentrating solar UV radiation, which is abundant in equatorial and near-equatorial nations.
" Applegate said the Purdue water disinfection system pumps water through a UV-transparent pipe placed on a parabolic reflector. 
"The shape of the reflective mirror concentrates the sun's UV rays so the radiation inside the pipe is more intense than outside," he said.
 "The radiation damages the DNA in microorganisms. When this is done, the microbes can no longer grow and the water is safe." Solar UV systems have been developed by other groups.
 The Purdue system, however, uses different materials than others. "We are using the range of solar UV wavelengths that are most effective for damaging microorganisms' DNA.
 Using material that is transparent to these wavelengths of radiation allows us to disinfect water a lot faster," Blatchley said.
 "We can pump water continuously through the system and produce water in a larger quantity." Blatchley and Applegate have conducted experiments in West Lafayette using non-pathogenic bacteria that are very closely related to those that cause cholera and typhoid.
 Blatchley said the results from the experiments could translate to the field where disease-causing microorganisms and higher levels of UV radiation exist.
 "We have information about how UV irradiance in West Lafayette compares to cities around the world including Port-au-Prince, Haiti, and the Kenyan cities of Eldoret and Mombasa," he said.
 "The maximum solar irradiance that occurs in West Lafayette is similar to the minimum values observed in these near-equatorial cities.
 The experiments we conduct here, where we have had success, should be at least as successful if they were conducted in Port-au-Prince, Eldoret and Mombasa, and probably quite a bit more.
" Having proven the concept of concentrating UV rays to disinfect water, the researchers now are determining how to scale up production in the system.
 The prototypes currently produce water at a rate of about 10-20 milliliters per minute. "The original prototypes were intentionally built on a small scale so we could conduct experiments using a relatively modest amount of time and resources," Blatchley said.
 "We have ideas on how we expect it to scale up, and we plan to demonstrate those." The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization
 has filed an international application for patent of the innovation. Purdue University's other patented technologies include new cancer treatments, alternative fuels, biomedical devices, agriculture innovations and others that are available for licensing through the Office of Technology Commercialization.
 For more information, call 765-588-3475, email otcip@prf.org or visit otc-prf.org/otc. The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization
 operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States. Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-latino-cultural-center-announces-busy-spring-semester-of-activities.html
<Content> Purdue Latino Cultural Center announces busy spring semester of activities
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The Latin American film Festival, the Purdue Latino Experience and "Celebrando Our History, Somos Purdue Gala" are part of a long list of spring semester activities scheduled for Purdue University's 
Latino Cultural Center. The Purdue Latino Experience, set for Feb. 26, will be a student-led panel discussion of Latino students from various backgrounds and countries, who will speak about their educational experience leading them to Purdue and their experiences at the university.
 The Embajadores, the LCC's service-learning organization to help participants build awareness and understanding of Latino cultures through educational programs, will lead the panel discussion.
 Celebrando Our History, Somos Purdue Gala is an April 12 event that honors past, present and future leaders of the Purdue community reflecting the history of Latino people and cultures through the university and LCC's history.
 The theme for the LCC's 10th-year anniversary celebration is Somos Latinos, Somos Purdue. Four films - scheduled for Thursday (Jan.
 31), Feb. 28, March 28 and April 11 - are part of the festival and will showcase films relative to Latino cultures and community.
 Purdue faculty and staff will guide film discussions with various student organizations from the Latino Student Council. * Latin American Film Festival.
 6 p.m. Thursday (Jan. 31). Beering Hall, Room 2280. "Waiting List." ("Lisa de espera"). For a film description go to http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0053146/
. For more information go to http://purdue.edu/LCC * Latin American Film Festival. 6 p.m. Feb. 28. Lawson Computer Science Building, Room B155.
"Black Orpheus." For a film description go to http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0053146/. For more information go to http://purdue.edu/LCC
 * Latin American Film Festival. 6 p.m. March 28. Beering Hall, Room 2280. "The Son of the Bride." For a film description go to http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0292542/
. For more information go to http://purdue.edu/LCC * Latin American Film Festival. 6 p.m. April 11. Beering Hall, Room 2280. "Alicia en el pueblo de Maravillas/Alice in Wondertown.
" For a film description go to http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0101295/. For more information go to hpp://purdue.edu/LCC * Semana de la Raza -.
 Feb. 25 to March 1. Week of the People is a series of events organized by the Purdue Latino Cultural Center to raise awareness of issues and cultural nuances.
 For more information go to http://purdue.edu/LCC. Activities during the week include: "Two Sisters and a Piano" play reading. 7 p.m.
 Mallet Theater, Pao Hall of Visual and Performing Arts. The Purdue Latino Experience. 5 p.m. Feb. 26. Stewart Center, Room 202. 
* Indiana Latino Leadership Conference. All day. March 2. For more information go to http://www.illc.info * La Polilla Café. Noon to 1 p.m.
 March 28. La Polilla Café (Bookworm Café) is a bilingual book club that meets quarterly to discuss contemporary and classical works by Latin American and Latino/a authors.
 The Women's Resource Network is co-sponsoring this event. The discussion will be on the book "The Line of the Sun" by Judith Ortiz Cofer.
 RSVP is required. For more information, go to http://www.purdue.edu/butler/purdue-womens-network.shtml * Celebrando Our History, Somos Purdue Gala.
 7 p.m. April 12. Purdue Memorial Union East/West Faculty Lounges. RSVP required. Contact the LCC for more information. * Dia de la Familia.
 1 p.m. April 13. Latino Cultural Center and Slayter Center. The celebration includes a family-style gathering and a concert by Grupo Fantasma.
 Grupo Fantasma will perform at dusk. * Latino Cultural Center Graduation Ceremony. 4-6 p.m. May 10. Dauch Alumni Center. For more information, concact Omar Diaz, 
odiaz@purdue.edu Contact: Omar Diaz, odiaz@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-launches-search-for-liberal-arts-dean.html
<Content> Purdue launches search for Liberal Arts dean
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University is launching a national search for a new dean of its College of Liberal Arts to replace Irwin Weiser, who is stepping down next summer.
 June 30, 2014, marks the end of Weiser's four-year appointment, which began July 2010 after serving as interim dean the previous year.
 "Dean Weiser has done an extraordinary job in leading one of Purdue's largest colleges. He has been instrumental in supporting and growing undergraduate research opportunities, investing in faculty research grants and creating interdisciplinary faculty positions," said Timothy Sands, executive vice president for academic affairs and provost.
 "He also worked to successfully restore a balanced budget, and he guided the college through a two-year transition as part of a realignment with the College of Health and Human Sciences.
 We are appreciative for his leadership in moving the College of Liberal Arts forward." Chris Ladisch, dean of the College of Health and Human Sciences, is leading the search for the next Justin S.
 Morrill Dean of the College of Liberal Arts. A search committee will be named this month, and a new dean is expected be announced by the end of the spring semester.
 Weiser will remain at Purdue and return to teaching in the Department of English where he was previously head from 2002-09. His primary area of interest is composition pedagogy, and he has focused his graduate teaching on topics such as writing across the curriculum, writing assessment and composition research methods.
 "It has been an honor to serve the College of Liberal Arts and Purdue as dean," Weiser said. "I have appreciated and learned from the opportunities I have had to work with truly gifted members of the faculty and staff of the college, with inspiring and engaged students, with committed and loyal alumni, and with my generous and creative fellow deans and other members of the Purdue administration.
 I look forward to continuing my support of the college that plays a central role in the education of every Purdue undergraduate student.
" The College of Liberal Arts is one of the largest at Purdue, with more than 275 tenured or tenure-track faculty, more than 3,700 undergraduate students, and 770 graduate students.
 The college houses the Brian Lamb School of Communication, the Patti and Rusty Rueff School of Visual and Performing Arts, and the School of Languages and Cultures, as well as the departments of Anthropology, Communication, English, History, Philosophy, Political Science, and Sociology.
 The college also is home to 15 interdisciplinary studies programs and a variety of centers including the Center for Research on Diversity and Inclusion and the Center on Religion and Chinese Society.
 The dean of the College of Liberal Arts is an endowed deanship, named in honor of Justin S. Morrill, and one of only four such college deanships at Purdue.
 Morrill was a driving force in the 1862 College Land Grant Act, which created the foundation for universities such as Purdue. The legislation is now known as the Morrill Act in his honor.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-launches-website-to-help-entrepreneurs,-investors,-collaborators.html
<Content> Purdue launches website to help entrepreneurs, investors, collaborators
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Purdue Research Foundation announces the launch of Innovation and Entrepreneurship, a website that offers a how-to approach to help entrepreneurs, investors, collaborators and others find information on commercializing Purdue innovations.
 The site also will help them partner with the university, create a startup and invest in technologies. "There is so much incredible innovation taking place at Purdue and across the state, and there is a wealth of resources to help commercialize, fund and market new technologies.
 The challenge we've witnessed is driving the innovator, collaborator or investor to the available resources," said Dan Hasler, president and chief entrepreneurial officer of the Purdue Research Foundation.
 "The Innovation and Entrepreneurship website provides an important starting point to connect people with opportunities." The launch of the new website follows the opening of the Purdue Foundry, an entrepreneurship and commercialization hub in the Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship. The foundry collaborates with longstanding activities already taking place in the center with a goal to meet the needs of Purdue innovators who have an interest in forming a startup or licensing their discoveries.
 "Navigating through the commercialization process is a daunting process for first-time entrepreneurs," said Oliver Wendt, a Purdue assistant professor of speech, language and hearing sciences and in educational studies.
 "Having a website to find resources is a definite plus, and being able to get assistance in person at the Burton D. Morgan Center is equally helpful.
" Wendt is commercializing SPEAK all! and SPEAK more!, two mobile apps to help children with nonverbal autism develop speech and language skills.
 Purdue technologies including new cancer treatments, alternative fuels, biomedical devices and agriculture innovations are available for licensing through the Office of Technology Commercialization.
 For more information, call 765-588-3475, email otcip@prf.org or visit otc-prf.org/otc. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-led-team-demonstrates-innovative-app-at-event-hosted-by-mozilla,-national-science-foundation.html
<Content> Purdue-led team demonstrates innovative app at event hosted by Mozilla, National Science Foundation
 Purdue-led team demonstrates innovative app at event hosted by Mozilla, National Science Foundation An app led by a Purdue team, built using the NSF's GENI platform for network experimentation, is designed to address the lack of reliable real-time communication for industrial and medical facilities via the Internet.
 This diagram of the app shows multiple paths of the communication where one packet stopped at a failed link and a second was received normally.
 (Purdue University image)Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A team of researchers and industry partners led by Purdue University is demonstrating its software-defined network protocol computer software designed to improve communication between manufacturing and medical facilities at the Mozilla Ignite Challenge this week in Chicago.
 Mozilla Ignite, hosted by Mozilla, the creator of the Firefox browser, and the National Science Foundation, is an open innovation challenge on June 24-26 through the federal government's 
US Ignite initiative. Its goal: imagine and build apps that show the full potential of next-generation networks in areas such as health care, education, energy, manufacturing and public safety.
 The Reliable Communication Protocol, being developed in the lab at Purdue and on the NSF's GENI platform for network experimentation, addresses the lack of reliable real-time communication for industrial and medical facilities via the Internet.
 Such communication is needed for tasks including remote medical procedures, the control of robots used to clean up after a chemical or nuclear disaster, and the control of manufacturing processes, said team leader George Adams, director of the 
ManufacturingHUB.org at Purdue. "Our work will provide ultra-high reliability for critical applications," Adams said. "Rather than incorporating reliability into a single application, we are building a fundamentally new communication technology that can be used by any application.
" The Purdue-led app team won a silver award in the Brainstorming Round of the Mozilla Ignite Challenge ($2,500) in a competition with more than 360 brainstorming entries.
 In the subsequent three development rounds of the event, the team was awarded funding at the highest level to demonstrate its concept.
 US Ignite, a host for the competition, had invited the team to present its app idea in March at a Federal Communications Commission workshop on Gigabit Community Broadband Networks in Washington, D.C.
 Joining Adams on the Purdue team are distinguished computer science professor Doug Comer and computer science graduate students Rajas Karandikar and Bhaskar Sarma.
 Other team members are: * Department head and computer science professor John Geske, and computer science undergraduate student Alison Chan from Kettering University in Flint, Mich.
 * Judi Clark, Jim Morrison and Pat Kennedy of Lit San Leandro, a 10-gigabit per-second metropolitan fiber project in the manufacturing zone of San Leandro, Calif.
 * Tracy McSheery, Greg D'Andrea and Dmitry Derevyanko of PhaseSpace Inc., an optical motion capture technology firm in San Leandro, Calif.
 * Ernest Howland of the Omnom Project, a startup developing an all-in-one, 3D printing and plastic recycler and filament manufacturer in Hayward, Calif.
 Professor Comer said Mozilla Ignite was the catalyst that prompted the Purdue group to form a team and focus on addressing this communication issue for industry using an innovative app.
 "We engaged students to help develop the underlying technology. More important, the challenge connected universities, a gigabit city, and industrial partners to construct a practical and effective demonstration that spans the country," he said.
 Created by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and the National Science Foundation, US Ignite is designed to foster the creation of next-generation Internet applications that provide transformative public benefit.
 The applications are focused in six areas: Education & Workforce, Energy, Health, Public Safety, Transportation and Advanced Manufacturing.
 ManufacturingHUB.org, which is powered by Purdue's open source HUBzero platform for scientific collaboration, serves small- to medium-sized manufacturers that could use high-performance computing and simulation to innovate new products but face barriers such as the cost of commercial software licenses, the cost of powerful computers and the staff to manage them, and the difficulty of learning to use complex simulation tools.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-libraries,-college-of-engineering-initiative-aimed-at-lifelong-learning.html
<Content> Purdue Libraries, College of Engineering initiative aimed at lifelong learning
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue Libraries and the university's College of Engineering are collaborating in an effort to assess and teach information gathering skills among engineering students.
 "In our own research and in other findings, we discovered a need in self-directed learning, especially in information literacy," said Senay Purzer, an assistant professor in engineering education at Purdue and principal investigator on the project.
 "Engineering graduates must constantly renew and expand their skills in rapidly changing fields, and this program is designed to measure students' information literacy skills and to develop their abilities as they become practicing engineers.
" Loosely defined, self-directed learning is a process where students determine their own learning needs, including knowing where to go to find the resources that can help them meet their objectives.
 That often involves information literacy skills, which is where Purdue Libraries fits into the project. The effort received a $200,000 boost from the National Science Foundation to develop assessment tools that measure information literacy skills and attitudes among engineering students, said Michael Fosmire, head of the physical sciences, engineering and technology division of Purdue Libraries.
 Fosmire and Amy Van Epps, associate professor of library science, are co-principal investigators on the project. "We expect to develop validated assessment tools that can accurately measure student performance, and we expect that these tools will lead to better and deeper conversations between engineering faculty and librarians about the skills students need in this area," Fosmire said.
 The project includes two objectives. One is to develop surveys to measure students' perceptions of their self-directed learning skills to gather evidence and use that information to make effective decisions.
 The other objective incudes a multiple-choice information literacy test, one part focusing on assessing students' reflective judgment and information literacy skills and the second part checking the reasoning behind their answers.
 The overall goal is to promote persistent, lifelong learning skills in alignment with ABET requirements and the Purdue University College of Engineering's Engineer of 2020 vision, to enable students to stay abreast of changes in their fields and be effective problem solvers as practicing engineers.
 The assessments provide engineering faculty with the tools and resources needed to do so. The effort also initially includes the universities of Arkansas and Manitoba (Ontario, Canada), and Arizona State University.
 Additionally, project leaders also plan to share the program with others at professional research conferences and institutions across the nation.
 Several universities also have expressed an interest. Amy Van Epps, 765-496-7680, vanepa@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-libraries-celebrates-open-access-week-with-open-education-and-research-events,-journal-editors-group-tea.html
<Content> Purdue Libraries celebrates Open Access Week with open education and research events, Journal Editors' Group Tea
 Purdue Libraries celebrates Open Access Week with open education and research events, Journal Editors' Group Tea WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - Purdue University Libraries will celebrate Open Access from Oct. 21-27 with three key events, including an Open Education Event presented by David Ernst, CIO in the College of Education and Human Development at the University of Minnesota.
 Activities also include a Journal Editors Group Tea and an open research event presented by Victoria Stodden of Columbia University.
 Awards will also be presented to key faculty members for their commitment and contributions to the advancement of Open Access at Purdue University.
 "Open Access" to information – the free, immediate, online access to the results of scholarly research, and the right to use and re-use those results as you need - has the power to transform the way research and scientific inquiry are conducted.
 It has direct and widespread implications for academia, medicine, science, industry, and for society as a whole. Open Access has the potential to maximize research investments, increase the exposure and use of published research, facilitate the ability to conduct research across available literature, and enhance the overall advancement of scholarship.
 Research funding agencies, academic institutions, researchers and scientists, teachers, students, and members of the general public are supporting a move toward Open Access in increasing numbers every year.
 Open Access Week is a key opportunity for all members of the community to take action to keep this momentum moving forward. * Oct.
 23: 2-3:30 p.m. Stewart Center, Room 314. Open Education Event. Open Textbooks and Educational Resources: New Approaches to Affordable Education.
 Speaker: David Ernst, University of Minnesota. Co-sponsored by Purdue Libraries and Purdue Student Government. This event will begin with the presentation of an Open Access (Education) Award by A.
 Dale Whittaker, vice provost for Undergraduate Academic Affairs. It will be presented to professor Linda S. Bergmann, director of the Online Writing Lab, which celebrates its 20th anniversary in 2013.
 Now featuring more than 300 reference and instructional materials, all made freely available online, OWL has established itself as one of the premier open educational resources on the web.
 After the presentation, Purdue Libraries Dean James L. Mullins will introduce the speaker. Ernst will describe efforts in the University of Minnesota's College of Education and Human Development to improve college access, affordability, and success by reducing the impact of textbook and course material costs for students.
 Ernst spent the last two years identifying barriers to the adoption of open textbooks and finding ways to help institutions and faculty overcome those barriers.
 He created the Open Academics textbook catalog in April, 2012 as a single source for faculty to find open textbooks. The catalog has had more than 70,000 visits from instructors in 173 countries.
 * Thursday, Oct. 24, 3-4 p.m., Purdue Memorial Union East Faculty Lounge. Journal Editors Group Tea. The fall meeting is open to anyone who would like to learn more about open access or is interested in sustainable business models for journal publishing, or concerned about predatory open access publishers.
 Refreshments will be served. The meeting will be discussion-based. RSVPs are not necessary, but are appreciated. Please email Becky Bunch at 
rsbunch@purdue.edu if you plan to attend. The Editors Group is open to Purdue faculty, staff, and students who edit journals or proceedings, or serve on editorial boards.
 * Friday, Oct. 25: 9-10:30 a.m., Lawson Computer Science Building, Room 1142. Open Research Event, titled "Scientific Reproducibility: Opportunities and Challenges for Open Research Data and Code.
" Speaker: Victoria Stodden, Columbia University. Co-sponsored by Purdue Libraries and the Cyber Center in Discovery Park This event will begin with the presentation of an Open Access (Research) Award by Dr.
 S. Laurel Weldon, interim vice provost for Faculty Affairs. It will be presented to professor. Mark S. Lundstrom, Don and Carol Scifres Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and founding director of the Network for Computational Nanotechnology.
 The award is presented in recognition of Lundstrom’s leadership in creating NanoHUB, a radical departure from traditional forms of scholarly communication in nanotechnology with a strongly open access character.
 After the presentation, Dean Mullins will introduce the speaker. Stodden is an assistant professor of statistics at Columbia University.
 Her research centers on the multifaceted problem of enabling reproducibility in computational science. This includes studying adequacy and robustness in replicated results, designing and implementing validation systems, developing standards of openness for data and code sharing, and resolving legal and policy barriers to disseminating reproducible research.
 Contact: Shannon Walker, director of strategic communications, Purdue University Libraries, 765-496-9610, walker81@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/purdue-libraries-to-extend-hours-as-students-prepare-for-finals.html
<Content> Purdue Libraries to extend hours as students prepare for finals
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University Libraries will extend hours at four facilities to help students prepare for final exams.
 &#8232;&#8232;The John W. Hicks Undergraduate Library will be open around the clock from Dec. 2-15. The Hicks library opens at 1 p.m.
 Sunday (Dec. 2), and will close at 5 p.m. Dec. 15. &#8232;&#8232; The Siegesmund Engineering Library will be open continuously starting at 11 a.m.
 Sunday (Dec. 2) through 5 p.m. Dec. 15. &#8232; The Humanities, Social Science and Education Library will extend its hours until 2 a.m.
 Dec. 9-13 during finals week. The Roland G. Parrish Library of Management & Economics will be open continuously starting at 11 a.m.
 Sunday (Dec. 2) through midnight Dec. 7. Saturday hours will be 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; and beginning at 11 a.m. Dec. 9, the library will be open continuously through 6 p.m.
 Dec. 14. &#8232;The locations with extended hours will serve coffee and refreshments periodically during finals week.&#8232;&#8232; For a list of all libraries hours, visit 
http://www.lib.purdue.edu/libraries/hours/201213/ExtendedHoursFall2012.html &#8232; </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-march,-rally-marks-100th-anniversary-of-womens-march.html
<Content> Purdue march, rally marks 100th anniversary of women's march
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Dozens of Purdue campus groups are expected to participate in a Friday (March 22) march and rally at the university to celebrate Women's History Month and the 100th anniversary of the women's movement.
 The public is invited to watch the march and to join the rally following the event around 12:15 p.m. at the France A. Córdova Recreational Sports Center.
 The delegations, which are preregistered, will leave the sports center at 11 a.m. to march on sidewalks through campus. The route includes Stadium Avenue, Stadium Mall Drive, Centennial Mall, and First, University and Third streets.
 They will return to the center for a rally that will feature speeches and musical performances. More event information is available at 
http://www.cla.purdue.edu/womens-studies/ The Purdue event is timed to recognize the 100th anniversary of the March 3 women's march in Washington, D.C.
, said T.J. Boisseau, director of Women's Studies and associate professor of history. During the 1913 event more than 5,000 women and their allies marched in support of a constitutional amendment to grant women the right to vote.
 The Purdue event also is recognizing a century of public action and social movements. "The timing is to mark the historic campaign to grant women suffrage, but each of the registered delegations is encouraged to promote the themes and causes, such as social justice, equal rights and the environment, that are important to them," Boisseau said.
 "It's a reflection of history and what challenges we face today. Many of our marchers will carry signs or wear costumes or sashes inspired by various movements during the last 100 years.
" The event is sponsored by the Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs, Purdue Women Lead of the Susan Bulkeley Butler Center for Leadership Excellence, Butler Women's Archives, Department of History, Department of Political Science, Office of the Dean of Students and Office of Student Affairs.
 Source: T.J. Boisseau, tjboisseau@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-meeting-to-examine-timely,-costly-issue-of-invasive-species.html
<Content> Purdue meeting to examine timely, costly issue of invasive species
 Clumps of garlic mustard spread just a few feet from a house in Indiana with a wooded backyard. The plant, native to Europe, was brought to the United States in the 1800s to be cultivated for food and medicinal use.
 (Purdue Agricultural Communication 2012 photo/Sharon Katz) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Invasive species experts from academia, government, environmental groups and business will gather at Purdue University to develop ways to better detect and control a problem that costs Indiana property owners and taxpayers millions of dollars a year.
 The Indiana Invasive Species Early Detection and Rapid Response Conference will be held Oct. 29 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. EDT in Room 214 of the Stewart Center.
 "This conference is a crucial first step toward establishing a comprehensive early detection and rapid response system in the state to address the growing threat invasive species pose to Indiana's economy, natural resources and citizens," said Steve Yaninek, head of Purdue's entomology department and the university's representative to the 
Indiana Invasive Species Council. The Indiana Legislature created the council, which organized the conference, in 2009 to coordinate the state's efforts to address the problem of invasive species.
 The conference will cover plants, including weeds; plant pathogens; insects and other invertebrates; terrestrial vertebrates; and fish.
 Among speakers are several of the nation's top experts on invasive species, including Mark Renz of the University of Wisconsin, Chuck Bargeron of the University of Georgia and Chris Evans of the Illinois Wildlife Action Plan.
 Lori Williams, executive director of the National Invasive Species Council, will provide a national perspective on the problem. 
One key topic of discussion will be a survey by the Invasive Plant Advisory Committee, which found that Indiana land owners and managers spent $5.85 million last year controlling invasive plants.
 The committee was created in 2010 to help the Indiana Invasive Species Council work on invasive plant issues in the state. The committee surveyed 116 agencies, land trusts, municipalities, contractors and private land owners throughout the state, representing more than 650,000 acres of managed public and private land in natural areas such as forests, prairies and wetlands.
 The survey did not include invasive species control in agricultural fields. The survey is a good representation of invasive plant management underway in Indiana, said Ellen Jacquart, a committee member and Northern Indiana Stewardship director of 
The Nature Conservancy, one of the land trusts whose lands have invasive plants. "The responses demonstrate how invasive species have gotten a strong foothold in Indiana and how expensive it is to remove them," Jacquart said.
 Of the groups surveyed, state agencies spent the most on invasive plant management in 2012 - nearly $3 million. Land trusts and municipalities came in second and third, respectively, each group spending slightly more than $1 million.
 The survey revealed that Indiana landowners and managers need to control a wide variety of invasive plant species; the survey identified nearly 50 species of invasive plants being managed statewide.
 More than 73 percent of survey participants reported that they have garlic mustard, making it the most commonly controlled invasive plant in Indiana.
 Controlling invasive species is made more difficult because many plant stores in Indiana still sell several species of them. "More than 95 percent of those surveyed supported removing invasive plants from commercial trade," Jacquart said.
 "The state is currently exploring a rule that would do just that." The full report is available on the Indiana Invasive Species Council's website at 
http://www.entm.purdue.edu/iisc/pdf/Invasive_Plant_Management_Costs_Report.pdf. The conference is open to the public. More information, including required registration, is at 
http://www.entm.purdue.edu/iisc/conference.php.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/purdue-names-2012-homecoming-queen-and-king.html
<Content> Purdue names 2012 Homecoming queen and king
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University students Stuart Shippee and Haley Mummert were crowned the 2012 Homecoming king and queen during a Friday (Oct.
 12) campus pep rally. They will appear at Homecoming festivities Saturday (Oct. 13), including the football game's halftime celebration.
 Shippee is a senior studying aeronautical engineering from King George, Va. Mummert is a senior studying management from Kokomo, Ind.
 They were chosen by online student voting and formal interviews by a judging panel composed of faculty, staff, students, alumni and community leaders.
 Members of the queen's court are Kirsten Clawson of Princeton, Ill., Laura Donaldson of Kentland, Ind., Tara Driscoll of Mokena, Ill.
, Kendra Julian of West Lafayette, Ind., Molly Longest of Carmel, Ind., and Allison Willis of Cincinnati. Members of the king's court are Brad Barnett of Georgetown, Ind.
, Addison Bradford of Indianapolis, Peter Chen of West Lafayette, Ind., Jacob Mattox of New Albany, Ind., Jude Nwaokobia of Onicha-Ugbo, Nigeria, and Curtis Wassum of Orchard Park, N.Y.
 Source: Margie Jones, program manager, Purdue Memorial Union, 765-494-8907, mctucker@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-names-2013-homecoming-queen-and-king-candidates.html
<Content> Purdue names 2013 Homecoming queen and king candidates
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University has announced the students who will serve on the 2013 Homecoming queen and king court.
 The Homecoming court is selected through an extensive process that includes an interview by a panel of judges composed of faculty, staff, students, alumni and community leaders.
 The selection process is coordinated by the Purdue Student Union Board, which also coordinates the pep rally and the Boilermaker Night Train parade.
 Student voting for the Homecoming king and queen will take place Sept. 18-26 on the Be Involved website at http://www.purdue.edu/b-involved
 Winners will be announced and crowned during the 211&#730; Session Sept. 28 in Mackey Arena, and they will be introduced during halftime of the Purdue-Northern Illinois football game on Sept.
 28. * Erin Whittaker, a senior studying quantitative agricultural economics and French from West Lafayette, Ind. * Patty Ziccarelli, a senior studying general health science pre-optometry from Lake Forest, Ill.
 Source: Margie Jones, program manager at Purdue Memorial Union, 765-494-8907, mctucker@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-names-2013-homecoming-queen-and-king.html
<Content> Purdue names 2013 Homecoming queen and king
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University students Joe Rust and Maureen Jones were crowned the 2013 Homecoming king and queen during Saturday's (Sept.
 28) 211&#730; Session at Mackey Arena. They appeared at Homecoming festivities Saturday (Sept. 28), including the football game's halftime celebration.
 Rust is a senior studying agribusiness management from Seymour, Ind. Jones is a senior studying special/elementary education from West Lafayette, Ind.
 They were chosen by online student voting and formal interviews by a judging panel composed of faculty, staff, students, alumni and community leaders.
 Members of the queen's court are Annalise Dietzen of Naperville, Ill.; Kelli Fultz of Indianapolis; Alison Gatons of Avon, Ind.; Erin Whittaker of West Lafayette, Ind.; Alexandra Zawodni of Fort Wayne, Ind.; and Patty Ziccarelli of Lake Forest, Ill.
 Members of the king's court are Josh Folk of Winnipeg, Canada, Stephen Joest of Carmel, Ind.; Gabriel Magallanes of Lafayette, Ind.; Travis Martin of Deer Creek, Ind.; Michael Welling of Fort Wayne, Ind.; and Cody Wilson of Greenwood, Ind.
 Source: Margie Jones, program manager at Purdue Memorial Union, 765-494-8907, mctucker@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-names-five-students-who-are-patenting-their-inventions.html
<Content> Purdue names five students who are patenting their inventions
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University recognized five students who are working to patent their own discoveries made while at school.
 Purdue Marketing and Media has developed a website at http://www.purdue.edu/fivestudents that includes information about the students.
 * Julia Alspaugh, a master's student in mechanical engineering from Raleigh, N. C. Alspaugh is part of an interdisciplinary team that is working to create next-generation orthopedic devices out of resorbable materials.
 These fixation devices, such as screws, plates and pins, would allow bones and joints to heal and then degrade safely into the body.
 This concept, similar to that of dissolving stitches in dental work, would minimize invasive procedures while keeping foreign or toxic materials out of the body.
 * Zachary Amodt, a senior in entomology from Woodinville, Wash. His experience as a combat medic in war zones all over the world was his inspiration for the suspected orthopedic fracture splint (SOF splint) to be used in the field.
 The splint is light and portable, which makes it ideal in pre-hospital settings such as drop zones. The SOF will even function if it's been shot.
 Amodt hopes this device will replace the inadequate equipment many war-zone medics are forced to use. * Sean Connell, a doctoral student in biomedical engineering from Houston.
 He co-founded Medtric Biotech with fellow doctoral student Jianming Li and has filed a patent for a breakthrough method for killing germs and promoting wound healing.
 Their product, GoPlay, includes disinfectant and antiseptic sprays for both over-the-counter and clinical applications. The uniqueness of GoPlay lies in its non-dependence on antibiotics to kill infections.
 Connell saw the need for such a product because of the rise in superbugs developing from antibiotic-resistant fungi, viruses and bacteria strains.
 After graduation this month, Connell and Li will carry on with Medtric Biotech at Purdue's Research Park. They hope the product lives up to its many first-place finishes in business competitions.
 * Andrew Glassman, an MBA student from Indianapolis. Glassman combined his Purdue bachelor's degree in engineering with his business education to create the DogBone wrap for iPhone headphones.
 The device was designed to store iPhone headphone cables in an efficient and easy way so that users aren't constantly fighting with tangled cords.
 It utilizes the charge port to secure the device to the phone and gives users a portable solution to headphone problems. He created the wrap as part of a team project in a new product development course.
 In June, Glassman will begin working full-time for Bank of America's Operations MBA program, but says he will still pursue his tinkering as a hobby.
 * Anne Dye Zakrajsek, a doctoral student in mechanical engineering-biomechanics from Akron, Ohio. She aims for a career in assistive technology device design and has already developed and facilitated an engineering senior design project to create a custom-fitted prosthetic that is enabling a young boy to run and play.
 Her work on redesigned helmet padding is aimed at better protecting football players and soldiers from brain injury. Anne Dye Zakrajsek, 
aedye@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-names-interim-vice-provost-for-faculty-affairs.html
<Content> Purdue names interim vice provost for faculty affairs
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue on Monday (July 1) announced that S. Laurel Weldon will serve as the university's interim vice provost for faculty affairs following the July 12 departure of Beverly Davenport Sypher.
 Davenport Sypher is leaving to serve as the University of Cincinnati's chief academic officer. A committee is being formed to begin a national search for a permanent replacement, said Timothy Sands, executive vice president for academic affairs and provost.
 "Laurel brings a wealth of Purdue knowledge and experience and a strong disciplinary and interdisciplinary background to her new role," Sands said.
 "Her interim appointment allows us to move forward seamlessly as we begin the national search for a permanent replacement for Beverly.
 I look forward to working with her during the next several months." Weldon, who received her bachelor's degree from Simon Fraser University in Canada, her master's from the University of British Columbia and doctoral degree from the University of Pittsburgh, came to Purdue's political science department in 1999.
 She has served as a political science professor and is founding director of the Center for Research on Diversity and Inclusion. She chaired the Faculty Advisory Committee for the establishment of the Global Policy Research Institute and was chair of GPRI's Faculty Leadership Committee until last year.
 She was a university senator and served on the Educational Policy and Nominating committees. She also served on the Faculty Affairs Committee in the College of Liberal Arts.
 She specializes in public policy, particularly in analyses using cross-national datasets; comparative politics; social movements; violence against women; and politics and gender, authoring two books, serving as co-editor of the first ever "Oxford Handbook on Politics and Gender," and co-editing the journal "Politics, Groups and Identity.
" She also has served on the Council of the American Political Science Association, the Midwest Political Science Association and as president of the Women and Politics Research Section of APSA.
 Her work has won both internal and external grants and awards, including funding from the National Science Foundation. She has been the recipient of both teaching and research awards and has worked in a variety of capacities for local and national governments, non-governmental organizations and international, intergovernmental organizations.
 "I am very excited to be joining the excellent team in the provost's office and to have an opportunity to work in an area - faculty affairs - for which I have great passion.
 Beverly Davenport Sypher will be a tough act to follow, but I am ready to give it my best shot," Weldon said. The vice provost for faculty affairs provides strategic direction for a wide array of faculty-focused initiatives including recruitment, retention, resource allocation and faculty development.
 The area also oversees faculty hiring initiatives and faculty success and retention efforts, and also is responsible for faculty policies including grievances, conflict of interest and commitment, and promotion and tenure.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-names-winners-of-first-engagement-awards.html
<Content> Purdue names winners of first engagement awards
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University has announced its first awards for outstanding effort in engagement with local, state, national and global organizations.
 The winning efforts by faculty in engineering, health and human sciences, education, and pharmacy range from helping local schools teach English learners to providing a food distribution program for HIV patients in Africa.
 "These award winners exemplify the best of Purdue's efforts to turn ideas into reality and make the world a better place," said President Mitch Daniels.
 "They are improving the lives of others while teaching their students to do the same." * Yuehwern Yih, professor of industrial engineering, the Faculty Engagement Fellow Award, given to a full professor whose work has led to a strong record in engagement.
 Yih has worked with Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare (AMPATH) to develop a system for distributing food to HIV patients in Kenya.
 Yih and some of her graduate students developed the Nutritional Information System (NIS), the first of its kind, in 2006. NIS has delivery scheduling and inventory tracking capabilities.
 It also tracks patient food prescriptions and connects the information with medical records so physicians and researchers can study the impact of nutrition on patient health.
 And it can tell donors the health outcomes and improvements resulting from their gifts. NIS provides support to more than 35,000 people.
 Although it was developed specifically for AMPATH, the system can be applied in other programs with similar missions. * James Elicker, associate professor in human development and family studies, and Luciana de Oliveira, associate professor of curriculum and instruction, the Faculty Engagement Scholarship Award, given to assistant or associate professors with outstanding records of early achievement in, and strong indication of future contribution to, engagement.
 Elicker has worked to enhance the quality of early childhood education at Purdue and throughout the state, including through his multi-year evaluation of Paths to Quality, which establishes a metric that enables parents to assess the quality of programs as they enroll their children.
 He was instrumental in formulating Indiana’s early learning standards, the Foundations to Indiana Academic Standards for Children Birth to Five, and he founded and co-directed the Infant-Toddler Specialists of Indiana, a statewide professional development network for persons working with children under age 3.
 De Oliveira focuses on issues relating to English language learners (ELL), especially in preparing teachers. She has worked with a number of communities and partners in developing ELL programs.
 One of the most notable is her work with the Frankfort, Ind., school system. From 2007 to 2009 she served as a professional development specialist for the Frankfort schools, which have 60 percent ELL students, fourth highest in the state.
 Before her arrival, less than 10 percent of the district's teachers had received services focused on ELL. While she was there more than 60 percent did.
 She also worked with the Wabash Valley Education Center to provide professional development for in-service teachers across the state.
 * Assistant professor of pharmacy practice Sonak Pastakia, and clinical assistant professors of pharmacy practice Ellen Schellhase, Monica Miller and Rakhi Karwa, the Corps of Engagement Award, given to a team for outstanding partnership and achievement in engagement.
 In 2003 the Purdue University College of Pharmacy formed the Purdue Kenya Program (PKP) with the goal of developing sustainable pharmacy infrastructure and services, and providing and expanding sustainable access to high-quality health care.
 PKP worked with AMPATH, Moi University School of Medicine, and Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital to implement an all-encompassing program in clinical services, teaching, pharmacy management and research.
 The program also has assisted the rapidly growing population of street children in Eldoret, Kenya. Through these partnerships with local Kenyan pharmacists, PKP creates clinical pharmacy infrastructure to provide inpatient care, pharmacy-based antiretroviral medication management, contextualized diabetes care, anticoagulation monitoring services and a research program to investigate the understudied characteristics of patients in sub-Saharan Africa.
 In addition, PKP directs one of the only experiential training programs in clinical pharmacy in sub-Saharan Africa, developing future leaders of global health pharmacy.
 PKP has helped usher in a much-needed shift in the practice of pharmacy in Kenya by developing opportunities for pharmacists to engage in a patient-focused practice rather than the traditional product-focused practice.
 PKP’s investment in developing both the physical infrastructure and health-care workforce has improved outcomes for thousands of patients.
 Those numbers will continue to grow as these pharmacists expand their models throughout Kenya and other developing countries. The engagement awards are open to Purdue faculty, staff and students.
 This year's winners were chosen by a committee composed of Purdue President Emeritus Martin Jischke, Indiana Lt. Gov. Sue Ellspermann, and former Purdue Board of Trustees President Tim McGinley.
 "We were fortunate to have a strong pool of candidates for these first awards," said Suresh Garimella, associate vice president for engagement.
 "These honorees set a high bar for future winners of the engagement awards." The winners were honored Thursday (March 28) during a luncheon at Westwood, the president's residence.
 Source: Suresh Garimella, 765-494-9095, garimell@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-next-online-learning-program-set-to-debut.html
<Content> Purdue NExT online learning program set to debut
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Registration is opening this fall for Purdue NExT, an online program that emphasizes interactive learning for advanced undergraduate and beginning graduate-level courses.
 The five-week, non-degree courses taught by Purdue faculty are currently being offered to undergraduate and graduate students, and will be marketed to professionals, businesses looking to improve skill levels of employees and higher education institutions that wish to supplement their degree programs and curricula.
 "Purdue NExT will enable students to gain exclusive access to courses taught by world-class faculty that focus on applied professional development across several areas of Purdue expertise," said Timothy Sands, executive vice president for academic affairs and provost at Purdue.
 "The concept for Purdue NExT grew out of a successful 2011 experiment at Purdue in modular, online, not-for-credit courses through nanoHUB-U.
 Unlike MOOCs, or Massively Open Online Courses, the first nanoHUB-U courses were not free, but were priced at a level conducive to use as an embedded supplement to courses offered for credit at a host institution.
 Purdue NExT builds off this format and expands the offerings to the full range of Purdue's strengths, including science, technology, engineering, business, pharmacy and communications.
" Sands said Purdue NExT will not offer degrees or Purdue credits but rather modular, online courses that focus on a core skill vital to continued success in a specific field of study or industry.
 Purdue NExT courses, which are available this fall, can be taken as a standalone course, as part of a series or as a supplementary experience embedded in an existing credit-bearing course.
 Students will view video lectures, interact with simulation and computational tools, and take quizzes at their own convenience, but homework assignments, exams and discussion forums will be on a schedule that is fixed by the host institution.
 Purdue NExT courses – either as not-for-credit standalone modules or as embedded modules in credit-bearing, on-campus courses – will be free for students enrolled at Purdue's West Lafayette campus.
 Future plans also include developing sustainable partnerships with regional campuses and with Purdue alumni groups to offer the content available widely across the Purdue network.
 Initial courses offered to Purdue West Lafayette students this fall are in business systems, chemical engineering, computer science, electrical and computer engineering, liberal arts and mechanical engineering.
 The courses will be built in Purdue's HUBzero environment, a research and education platform for science and engineering communities that offers cloud-based computing resources.
 Ananth Iyer, faculty director of Purdue NExT, said the courses emphasize interactive, experiential learning. "Purdue NExT courses will offer deeper learning experiences by incorporating simulation, visualization and graphics," he said.
 "The technology enables this advanced online learning and allows tailoring of the lecture experience to the individual student's needs.
" Iyer said the tools being used vary with the specific course, but range from circuit simulations, to lean supply chain exercises, to optimization tools, to physical simulations to virtual clean rooms.
 He said access to large datasets to drive these models will enable students to learn while immersed in real-world scenarios using numerical, sound and video data.
 "Purdue NExT represents the next generation of technology-enhanced teaching and learning, going beyond video lectures to take full advantage of the digital learning environment," said Steve Dunlop, managing director of Purdue NExT.
 "This approach teaches students how to master specific marketable skills that they can immediately apply to their fields of study or profession.
" When students successfully complete courses they earn digital badges that are tied to the Mozilla Open Badge program and makes use of Purdue's Passport badge technology.
 In some cases, these badges can be translated into continuing education credits and applied toward professional certifications. 
The courses will be marketed globally in late fall to individuals, business and industry and other higher education institutions by Deltak, a Wiley brand, on behalf of Purdue.
 "In the past few years, there has been such a big increase in the number of people pursuing higher education around the world that many countries can't find enough qualified faculty, particularly for upper-level engineering, science and technology courses," Iyer said.
 "This program can help international students learn some of those skills." Ananth Iyer, 765-494-4514, aiyer@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/purdue-offering-new-degree-in-environmental-and-ecological-engineering.html
<Content> Purdue offering new degree in environmental and ecological engineering
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University will award its first bachelor's degrees in environmental and ecological engineering next May.
 The Indiana Commission for Higher Education approved the degree Sept. 14, the final step in establishing a new program. The new degree will be administered by the Division of Environmental and Ecological Engineering (EEE).
 The division was established five years ago as an independent academic unit within the College of Engineering. John W. Sutherland, the Fehsenfeld Family Head of EEE, said that until now, students had earned degrees in multidisciplinary engineering.
 With the approval, 42 students will transition into the new EEE bachelor's degree program. Several additional students are expected to transfer from other programs, bringing the number of EEE majors to more than 50, Sutherland said.
 "The target size for our undergraduate program is 115; we should be producing 35 graduates per year within five to six years," he said.
 "As a division, we are able to engage faculty from across all of engineering to deliver EEE courses," Sutherland said. "This allows us to draw on broad expertise to address fundamental engineering issues with respect to environmental protection and environmental quality.
 "Our approach is different from many other environmental engineering programs. We don't just focus on pollution control and managing legacy and existing environmental problems," he said.
 "In addition, we emphasize the need to design engineered systems to proactively prevent future environmental challenges." Sutherland said the demand for students with an environmental and ecological engineering degree is strong; the rate of environmental engineering job growth is the second-highest of all engineering disciplines, lagging only biomedical engineering.
 He noted that during the recent Industrial Roundtable job fair on campus, the students who are expected to earn EEE degrees in May drew tremendous interest from potential employers.
 EEE also is an attractive engineering discipline for young women. The students in the new degree program are 55 percent female. That compares with 2011-12 enrollments of 21 percent female for all of engineering and 42.6 percent female for all of Purdue.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-officials-report-on-state-of-commercialization,-research-and-information-technology.html
<Content> Purdue officials report on state of commercialization, research and information technology
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Purdue University officials presented the state, national and global impact of Purdue's economic development, research and information technology initiatives to the Board of Trustees on Friday (Feb.
 8). Joseph B. Hornett, senior vice president, treasurer and COO of Purdue Research Foundation; Richard O. Buckius, Purdue's vice president for research; and Gerry McCartney, chief information officer and vice president for information technology, presented reports at the meeting.
 Hornett reported that the 175 U.S. patent applications filed are a 41 percent increase over the previous year and that 110 global patents were received by Purdue, a 26 percent increase.
 Royalties for Purdue's commercialized technologies reached $8.7 million, marking a 22 percent increase over the prior year. Hornett said that over the same time period, Purdue ranks first for patent applications and second for invention disclosures in the Big Ten.
 "The marked increase in disclosures and patent applications exemplifies the commitment Purdue faculty, staff and students have to making a global contribution by actively commercializing their discoveries," Hornett said.
 "One particular area of growth is in student entrepreneurship. In the past fiscal year, we have seen tremendous growth in patents filed for students through the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization.
" In the 2011 filing period, 355 Purdue students filed patents, a 62 percent increase over the 218 filed the prior year. Hornett also said that the Purdue Research Park, which is managed by the foundation, now has 239 companies that employ about 4,250 people.
 Individuals working in the park network earn an average annual wage of $63,000. Buckius reported that new sponsored program awards totaled nearly $354 million for the 2012 fiscal year, down from the previous year's $420 million, due, in part, to the spending down of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funding received in prior years.
 He also reported a 12 percent increase in sponsored program awards from industrial and foundation sources and a 19 percent increase in research expenditures over the previous fiscal year.
 "Purdue has a strong record of building industry and foundation partnerships, which is especially important as the future economic environment may mean a decrease in research funding opportunities from the federal government," Buckius said.
 "These lasting and productive partnerships are a fundamental part of the research endeavors taking place at Purdue as well as a driver of economic development for the state and the nation.
" The university's roughly $650 million in research expenditures include money spent on research from funding awarded in previous years as well as cost-share commitments and facility and administration costs.
 "There has been rapid growth in the university's research endeavors over the past five years, as shown by the trend in research expenditures," Buckius said.
 "Based on reporting to NSF, excluding medical schools of our peers, in fiscal year 2011, Purdue expended more than $50 million above the mean expenditures of our peers, yet ranks 9th out of 15 with our aspirational and Big Ten peers.
" During the fiscal years of 2009 to 2011 Purdue experienced a temporary increase in awards due to grants received through ARRA, which accounted for 24 percent of the record $438 million in sponsored program awards in 2010.
 ARRA funding fell to a fraction of 1 percent of the total for the 2012 fiscal year. From fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2012, excluding the small contributions from ARRA support in those years, Purdue's awards increased by 6 percent.
 * $14.5 million from the National Science Foundation to the Purdue-led Network for Computational Nanotechnology Cyber-Platform. 
 * $10 million from The Regenstrief Foundation to Purdue's Regenstrief Center for Healthcare Engineering. * The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and U.S.
 Department of Commerce awarded a contract with a value of up to $9.9 million to researchers from Purdue and a consortium of engineering companies for the NIST Disaster and Failure Studies Program.
 McCartney, who also is the Olga Oesterle England Professor of Information Technology, pointed out that Purdue's ability to provide research, instructional, and computational resources to a global audience is a significant reason why it hosts facilities such as the Network for Computational Nanotechnology.
 But he said recent, rapid changes in technology and in the delivery of information is creating an even greater, around-the-clock demand for Purdue resources and expertise.
 "People think of the university offices closing at 5 p.m., and many here do, but we are increasingly becoming an always-on university," McCartney said.
 "Purdue serves a global audience that requests and uses our services 24 hours a day." This always-on demand will continue to rapidly increase due to the international growth of mobile phones.
 "Three-fourths of the world's population already has access to a mobile phone or device," McCartney said. "This gives the world access to Purdue in ways that were hardly imagined before.
" Purdue is already a leading developer of mobile apps that aid in student learning, but McCartney said future plans to respond to the changes in technology include not only increased development of tools and resources for mobile devices, but also close, novel partnerships with industry-leading corporations.
 One such partnership is a licensing agreement, announced at the meeting, with Pearson Higher Education, which will include information from Purdue's Online Writing Lab (OWL) in its digital textbooks.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-online-series-is-guide-to-indiana-grapes-and-wines.html
<Content> Purdue online series is guide to Indiana grapes and wines
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University online series that began Tuesday (Sept. 10) gives consumers an up-close look at Indiana wines and shows them what goes into taking the grapes from vine to bottle.
 The series, called "Through the Grapevine," appears on the website of the Purdue publication Agricultures at https://ag.purdue.edu/agricultures/Pages/ThroughTheGrapevine/01-IndianaVarieties.aspx
. It will run each Tuesday. The series is a valuable - even entertaining - resource for anyone interested in learning about Indiana wines and the grapes grown in the state, said Natalie van Hoose, writer and organizer of the series produced by the Purdue Department of Agricultural Communication.
 "Indiana's wine industry may be small, but it's really quite remarkable," van Hoose said. "This series explores the past, present and future of Indiana wines and gives an inside perspective on this year's grape harvest and winemaking.
" Indiana wines have been scoring high in the annual Indy International Wine Competition. The Indiana-grown Vignoles (pronounced vin-YOHL') grape, for instance, is used in wines that have won Wine of the Year the past two years.
 Van Hoose draws upon the expertise of Purdue specialists in viticulture and enology and other members of the wine industry to help educate readers about Indiana grapes and what makes them special.
 She also explores issues such as the effects of herbicide drift on vineyards, how rising temperatures have affected the range and varieties of grapes grown in Indiana, and possible health benefits of drinking moderate amounts of wine.
 In addition, the series also offers tips to readers on how to shop for a bottle of wine that will be pleasing to them and which types of wine pare well with particular foods.
 Each part of the series includes a note on the next week's topic so that readers can watch for it. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-ostracism-expert-included-in-reject-documentary.html
<Content> Purdue ostracism expert included in 'Reject' documentary
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Kipling D. Williams, a Purdue University professor of psychological sciences, is one of the ostracism experts featured in the documentary "
Reject" that will be shown later this month at the 2013 Heartland Film Festival in Indianapolis. "This film has the potential to educate many people about the harm and dangers of ostracism through poignant interviews with children and their families, as well as scientists," said Williams, who has studied ostracism for 20 years.
 "Ostracism is the invisible stepchild of bullying. Everyone knows bullying is bad and there are overt behaviors that can be documented.
 But not talking to somebody at work or excluding classmates from playing is something that is very difficult to document, and so it becomes the weapon of choice for adults and children because it is easier to disguise and get away with.
" The independent film, directed and produced by Ruth Thomas-Suh, had its world premiere at the Cleveland International Film Festival in April 2013, where Williams was on the post-screening discussion panel.
 The film is currently playing at community screenings and festivals, including the Heartland Film Festival on Oct. 19, 22, 23 and 24.
 Williams also will be available after the Oct. 19 viewing for questions and answers. "Reject" is expected to be widely available in 2014.
 Williams will talk about his ostracism research in social psychology as well as his creation, Cyberball, which is used to create and examine the effects of social rejection and ostracism.
 Cyberball is used in laboratories in the United States and around the world to measure the impact of rejection, its connection to physical pain and aggressive behavior.
 The film, which also features experts in education, medicine, neuroscience and juvenile justice, was inspired by the work of Thomas-Suh's father, Dr.
 Herbert E. Thomas, who wrote the book "The Shame Response to Rejection." His book was based on his 30-years experience as a resident psychiatrist in a maximum-security prison where he observed a clear connection between the experience of rejection and physical pain and how it often led to acts of violence.
 "Reject takes an in-depth and solution-based look into the science of social rejection, and features two American families whose children were affected in profoundly different ways.
" Thomas-Suh said. "It addresses issues that are of serious concern right now to anyone involved with raising children. Our team hopes the film can contribute to the important national conversation on emotional health and violence.
" Thomas-Suh also has partnered with Williams and Purdue Extension to develop a program called "All In, Developing Inclusive Relationships.
" More information about this program will be available this fall. The schedule and ticket information for "Reject" at Heartland Film Festival is available at 
http://bit.ly/1eb7Lcr </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-part-of-first-industry-led-collaborative-life-sciences-research-institute-in-the-united-states.html
<Content> Purdue part of first industry-led collaborative life sciences research institute in the United States
 Purdue part of first industry-led collaborative life sciences research institute in the United States INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. —Indiana Governor Mike Pence joined Indiana-based global life sciences and research university executives Thursday (May 30) to unveil the Indiana Biosciences Research Institute, the first industry-led collaborative life sciences research institute in the country.
 The Indiana Biosciences Research Institute is a statewide public-private partnership advanced by BioCrossroads and led by Indiana's life sciences industry, with support from the state of Indiana and partnerships with Indiana's research universities to discover, develop and deliver biosciences innovations in Indiana.
 The Institute will serve as the centerpiece project of the BioCrossroads public-private collaboration through its attraction of world-class scientific leaders and life sciences research dollars to Indiana, while focusing on human health solutions for improving the lives of Hoosiers and people around the world.
 "Indiana has built a life sciences ecosystem unlike any other state and faces a new season of opportunity as a result," said Gov.
 Pence. "The Institute will strengthen Indiana's reputation as a global life sciences hub and produce breakthroughs that will attract new investment to our state and create good-paying jobs for Hoosiers.
" The Indiana Biosciences Research Institute is the result of leadership from industry executives from Eli Lilly and Co., Dow AgroSciences, Roche Diagnostics, Cook Medical, Indiana University Health and Biomet and the Governor of Indiana, with active support in initial development by BioCrossroads.
 Indiana's research institutions, including Indiana University, Purdue University and the University of Notre Dame also are participating in the development process.
 "Bringing together Indiana's bioscience industry leaders and leading research universities is of critical importance to our state, our nation and our world," said Richard O.
 Buckius, Purdue's vice president for research. "The Indiana Biosciences Research Institute will serve as a catalyst in the further development of these key partnerships, will help speed commercialization opportunities and will enhance Purdue University's world-class research capabilities in solving many of today's most complex life science issues.
" David Johnson, president and CEO of BioCrossroads said, "This Institute comes at a pivotal time in our state's evolution as a global life sciences leader.
 With a bioscience sector that now contributes more than $50 billion a year to the Hoosier economy, Indiana is ranked by BIO and Battelle as one of the top five states in the nation in terms of our total number of life sciences companies and employees.
 Through the Institute, BioCrossroads believes we have found a bold way to raise our game in Indiana by building the platform that will truly take us to the next level of success.
" The Indiana Biosciences Research Institute is developing a novel operating model, with industry providing a major source of funding and defining the Institute's research focus to optimize commercialization opportunities.
 The Institute also draws on a life sciences industry cluster that is one of the largest and most diverse in the nation, with global companies that are developing next-generation drugs and pharmaceuticals, diagnostics tests, medical devices, cell-based therapies, agricultural biotechnology and animal health and production solutions.
 This diversity of industry capabilities creates opportunities for Indiana-based life sciences companies to work in collaboration – not competition – toward common scientific discoveries.
 "The research institute will change the bio-landscape of our region," said Bart Peterson, senior vice president at Eli Lilly and Co.
 "Indiana's life sciences companies spend billions of dollars in research and development each year to advance health-care innovations for improved human health.
 The Institute will help us nurture our partnerships across the country and develop more intellectual capital here in Indiana - allowing us to keep more research dollars in the state, attract more federal research funds, and draw top scientific minds to feed our research pipeline and local economies.
" "Having the best talent and the best scientific minds is crucial for growing our life sciences industry cluster in Indiana," said Steve Ferguson, chairman of Cook Group, which is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year.
 "World-class scientific talent at the industry and academic level is one of the state's most powerful economic development tools.
 Just as companies like Lilly and Cook Medical started as small, entrepreneurial operations, we expect the Institute to draw the best and the brightest to Indiana to further deepen our life sciences industry roots and grow more business opportunities.
" As part of the Institute development process, industry leaders have defined common scientific interests for research and discovery.
 The Institute will initially focus on the most pressing global and local interrelated human health issues: cardiovascular disease, diabetes, obesity and nutrition.
 These interrelated metabolic disorders are a major economic burden and a leading cause of death in the United States. Risk factors, such as high blood pressure and insulin resistance, allow for early disease detection, and timely preventive actions, such as through improved nutrition, and early intervention can slow or prevent the onset of disease.
 This is an important scientific discovery subject for the approximately 35 percent of Americans who suffer from cardiovascular disease and metabolic disorders, and is a significant risk for Hoosiers who suffer disproportionally from these diseases.
 "We have an opportunity to not only help millions of people around the world who are battling these metabolic disorders, but we can have significant impact on Hoosiers who suffer more than the average American from diabetes and who rank 8th in the nation in terms of obesity," said Jack Phillips, president and CEO of Roche Diagnostics.
 "The Indiana Biosciences Research Institute will provide the platform to deliver significant scientific advancements that could improve Hoosier lives.
" "The ability to better understand metabolic disorders impacts the work of nearly every life sciences company in Indiana," said Antonio Galindez, president and CEO of Dow AgroSciences.
 "Together, we can develop a deeper understanding of the pathways leading to metabolic disease and apply those discoveries to not only medical interventions, but also to greatly enhanced nutritional sources developed through advanced crop improvement technologies and other advancements in human health.
" "Patients and clinicians have much to gain by the success of this critically important new venture," said Daniel F. Evans Jr., president and CEO of Indiana University Health.
 "The discoveries and inventions generated by the Institute will be used by our physicians to care for patients. To accelerate the pace of innovation from lab bench to patient bedside, we are pleased to make our health-care system available to researchers to test potential new treatments and therapies.
" The estimated $360-million Indiana Biosciences Research Institute is a nonprofit entity that is anticipated to be supported largely by corporate and philanthropic funding with oversight from a largely donor-based board of directors representing the life sciences industry, the state of Indiana, academia and nonprofit donors.
 The State of Indiana has appropriated $25 million for the biennium for start-up costs. An additional $25 million in start-up funding is being sought from industry and philanthropic sources, which will be used in part to recruit a nationally recognized CEO and research fellows.
 The remaining capital funding will be sought from corporate and philanthropic sources, and ongoing operating costs will be funded through Institute endowment proceeds, industry-sponsored research and federally funded research.
 The Indiana Biosciences Research Institute will attract local and national scientific leaders beginning with the CEO and the recruitment of research "Indiana Fellows.
" These research fellows will lead teams of scientists and partner with industry and universities on research projects. These teams will consist of experts across a spectrum of competencies, including bioengineering, bioinformatics, nanotechnology and agriculture.
 These cross-functional teams will share resources and research laboratories at the Indiana Biosciences Research Institute and will work onsite at industry and research university labs with academic and industry scientists.
 "As the scientific discovery process increases in complexity, more companies are looking outside their own walls for multi-disciplined team members to help move innovation forward, at a faster rate, in order to remain competitive in an increasingly global marketplace," said Jon Serbousek, president, Biomet Biologics.
 "A cross-industry, statewide partnership focused on commercially translatable innovation on the cutting edge of basic and clinical science will help the state's life sciences industry move to the next level.
" "The Indiana Biosciences Research Institute provides a new and exciting opportunity for our research universities to work with our statewide life sciences industry," said Bill Stephan, vice president for engagement at Indiana University.
 "The Institute will bolster our ongoing efforts to recruit highly regarded local and national researchers and graduate students.
 We envision the dynamic of researchers from the Indiana Biosciences Research Institute working alongside researchers in industry or university labs, strengthening long-term collaborative research and funding opportunities.
" More information about the Indiana Biosciences Research Institute can be found at http://www.indianabiosciences.org BioCrossroads
 is Indiana's initiative to grow, advance and invest in the life sciences, a public&#8209;private collaboration that supports the region's existing research and corporate strengths while encouraging new business development.
 BioCrossroads provides money and support to life sciences businesses, launches new life sciences enterprises (Indiana Health Information Exchange
, Fairbanks Institute for Healthy Communities, BioCrossroadsLINX, OrthoWorx and Datalys Center), expands collaboration and partnerships among Indiana's life science institutions, promotes science education and markets Indiana's life sciences industry.
 BioCrossroads media contact: Lori LeRoy, Public Relations and Marketing Director, 317-238-2456, lleroy@biocrossroads.com Source:
 Richard O. Buckius, 765-494-6209, rbuckius@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-partners-with-statewide-stem-festival-for-students-at-indianapolis-motor-speedway.html
<Content> Purdue partners with statewide STEM festival for students at Indianapolis Motor Speedway
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University on Sunday (Sept. 8) will participate in Celebrate Science Indiana 2013, a daylong festival for P-12 students to showcase the joy of discovery and the wonder of science.
 The free event, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, is designed for students in preschool and older to highlight the importance of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education as well as research and careers in those fields.
 Celebrate Science Indiana is collaborating with the American Chemical Society for this year's event in Indianapolis. "Celebrate Science is a fun-filled, family event for generating early interest among Indiana's students - preschool, middle school and high school - in a STEM-based education and career," said Candiss Vibbert, associate director for the Discovery Park Office of Engagement.
 "Our goal is to engage students of all ages in interactive STEM-related activities and discussions that will spark their curiosity and imagination.
" The Purdue exhibit will feature interactive activities and materials designed to connect students to the world of engineering, agriculture, education, chemistry and other sciences, said Dorothy Reed, assistant dean for engagement in the Purdue College of Education.
 Learning and education outreach programs through Discovery Park, Zip Trips, I-STEM and Motorsports-STEM also will be on display, she said.
 Purdue entomology professor Tom Turpin, a Celebrate Science steering committee member and creator of the Bug Bowl that is part of Spring Fest, thinks the upcoming will be a hit for students and parents alike.
 "Celebrate Science provides a terrific opportunity to highlight Purdue STEM efforts and to excite these bright and curious young students about the career potential as a scientist," Turpin said.
 Leading the Motorsports-STEM initiative is James Caruthers, Purdue's Reilly Professor of Chemical Engineering. Through that, Purdue is partnering with engineering company Dallara, Indianapolis Public Schools, the Metropolitan School District of Decatur and Speedway Schools to use IndyCar racing for engaging student interest in the STEM disciplines.
 The initial focus of M-STEM will be developing a middle school curriculum, which eventually can be expanded to upper elementary and high school classes.
 Participants in Celebrate Science will include local and national science-based industries and businesses, federal agencies, educational institutions and public institutions with a major emphasis on science or science education.
 Lead sponsors for Celebrate Science in Indianapolis event are Dow AgroSciences, Eli Lilly & Co. and the Science Education Foundation of Indiana.
 Additional support is provided by Purdue as well as Indiana University, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI), Marian University, WFYI, Beckman Coulter Foundation, Epics High, Hoosier Academies, Butler University, Covance, Barnes & Thornburg LLP, Learning Curve, Indiana State Museum and Historic Sites, and Mad Science.
 An inaugural Celebrate Science satellite event in Fort Wayne is from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturday (Sept. 7) in Walb Union, 2101 E.
 Coliseum Blvd., on the campus of Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne. Organizers include the Northern Indiana Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Education Resource Center and IPFW.
 James Caruthers, 765-494-6625, caruther@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-peace-project-helps-resolve-leadership-conflict-in-berekum,-ghana.html
<Content> Purdue Peace Project helps resolve leadership conflict in Berekum, Ghana
 Stacey Connaughton, an associate professor of communication, is director of the Purdue Peace Project, which is housed in the Brian Lamb School of Communication and the College of Liberal Arts.
 This research project is focused on resolving conflict by empowering local communities and its citizens to resolve the problem on its own rather than outside groups coming in to provide solutions, resources or financial assistance.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons)Download Photo&#65279; WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - After 13 years of conflict over who was chief of a small Western African community, local citizens were able to help peacefully resolve the disagreement with the assistance of a new Purdue University peace and research program.
 The Purdue Peace Project, housed in the Brian Lamb School of Communication and the College of Liberal Arts, works with local citizens in West Africa to help prevent political violence in their communities.
 The program's first success story is from Berekum, Ghana. "Historically, when there is a conflict in a region, outside groups come in to offer financial assistance, resources or solutions, but what makes the Purdue Peace Project different is empowering the local community and its citizens to resolve the matter on its own," said Stacey Connaughton, an associate professor of communication and project director.
 "It's not about what the Purdue Peace Project does to fix the problem. We provide space and opportunity for the local actors to resolve the situation through effective strategies and dialogue.
" In Berekum (pronounced Bear-a-KUUM), a municipality of just over 83,800 people, the chief is nominated by the queen mother and accepted by the kingmakers before being installed.
 The chief is an important figure in Akan custom, being viewed as the source of all traditional authority. However, in 2000, a chief was installed, some believed, without following the proper process for nomination and installation.
 As a result, that individual was not officially recognized by some citizens as the traditional leader, and he could not fully exert his authority as he had not been deemed the paramount chief by the state, Connaughton said.
 The community struggled with development, education and infrastructure concerns. After a decade of problems and with the December 2012 Ghana parliamentary elections approaching, there was concern about possible political violence and destruction.
 The Purdue Peace Project became involved in January 2012, and on Sept. 9, 2013, Berekum announced it had a new, approved chief. 
The project began with a meeting of relevant community leaders, including those who supported the chief, representatives of religious communities, the youth and other community groups.
 "Allegiances were split, but one thing that remained true was that people were committed to avoiding violence. Once a judicial decision was made, all said they would abide by the decision," Connaughton said.
 During the first phase, issues and concerns were identified and an action plan developed with the goal of preventing political violence.
 From these initial efforts the Berekum Peace Committee, composed of only local citizens, was formed and continued with more meetings, designing messages of peace, advocacy efforts, peace marches and local media reports to help avoid violence.
 "This group really made a difference," Connaughton said. "Our goal is for the Purdue Peace Project to always be in the background.
 Local leaders should be driving the solution." Throughout the project, the research team collects data and interviews people about the conflict and process to resolve it.
 Connaughton, whose research expertise is in leadership processes and issues of identification, leads the team, which is composed of graduate students and a program manager, Rosaline B.
 Obeng-Ofori, who resides in West Africa. Now that the chieftaincy dispute is resolved, the team will follow the transition period in Berekum, and also continue working with communities in Liberia and Nigeria to resolve community conflicts.
 One initiative in Liberia concerns citizens' limited participation in natural resource management issues, and the second focuses on a dispute between the community and the growing number of pen-pen drivers, many of whom are former child soldiers who use dirt bikes as messenger and taxi services.
 There is no infrastructure or regulations in place and often there is conflict as these former soldiers adjust to civilian life.
 The Purdue group also is working to improve university and host community relationships in a violence-prone region of southern Nigeria.
 The Purdue Peace Project is funded by a Purdue alumnus, Milton C. Lauenstein, who is a retired businessman and philanthropist. The project also works with organizations such as Health Matters Inc.
, International Alert, Open Society Initiative for West Africa, Rights & Rice Foundation, and Women Movement for Sustainable Development.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-physicists-part-of-discovery-of-rare-particle-decay-predicted-by-the-standard-model.html
<Content> Purdue physicists part of discovery of rare particle decay predicted by the Standard Model
 Red lines show the disintegration of a B-sub-s into two muons in the CMS camera at the Large Hadron Collider. Yello, green and blue are used to denote particles other than muons.
 Purdue University physicists were part of the discovery of the B-sub-s decay process that is consistent with the Standard Model of particle physics.
 (Image courtesy of Ian Shipsey/CERN) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University researchers are part of a team that made a discovery that offers more evidence to support the Standard Model of physics.
 Researchers from the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) and Large Hadron Collider beauty collaborations (LHCb) in July announced findings of a rare particle decay that agrees closely with the Standard Model of particle physics.
 The collaborations involved experiments using the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN, the European Organization for Nuclear Research laboratory in Geneva, Switzerland.
 The collaborations found strong evidence that a particle called B-sub-s disintegrates into pairs of muons at a rate consistent with the Standard Model's prediction of one in every 280 million.
 Purdue's particle physics group has been a part of the historical international experiments at CERN and the hunt for the Higgs boson for more than two decades.
 In July of 2012, a team of scientists representing the international collaboration announced the discovery of the Higgs particle.
 The Purdue particle physics group includes physics professors Virgil Barnes, Daniela Bortoletto, Laszlo Gutay, Matthew Jones, David Miller, Norbert Neumeister, Ian Shipsey, Fuqiang Wang and Wei Xie, and professor emeritus Arthur Garfinkel.
 Shipsey, the Julian Schwinger Distinguished Professor of Physics, is chair of the CMS Collaboration Board. He and his postdoctoral researchers and graduate students were part of the discovery team.
 The group included graduate students Zhen Hu and Jian Sun and postdoctoral researchers Nuno Leonardo and Marco de Mattia. "This was the culmination of a search that was first attempted in the 1980s and has seen many unsuccessful re-attempts over the years," Shipsey said.
 "While the discovery of the Higgs particle took advantage of the world-record setting energy of the colliding beams, it was the sheer number of collisions that was important to this discovery.
" "The excitement of finally observing this process arrives with some disappointment because the appeal of this process has been its potential to reveal cracks in the Standard Model, but what we measure agrees with the expectations of the model," Leonardo said.
 The Standard Model is the most precise description of the subatomic world proposed, and many of its predictions have been supported through precise experimental testing.
 However, it offers no explanation for dark matter, which is five times more abundant than ordinary matter; dark energy, which accounts for 70 percent of the energy of the universe; what powered cosmic inflation; or for the dominance of matter over antimatter in the universe, Shipsey said.
 The search for these muons was complicated by what physicsts call "fake" muons, which appear when particles more commonly produced by the collisions leave an image in the compact muon solenoid camera that resembles a muon, Shipsey said.
 "When searching for a very rare process, the fakes can outnumber the real muons, and so the scientists had to work especially hard to discern the wheat from the chaff in this case," he said.
 "Using all the data recorded so far - about 3 quadrillion collisions - 30 examples of a B-sub-s disintegrating to a pair of muons were found.
" The rare particle decay provides a great opportunity to test models of new physics, de Mattia said. "These decays are ideal processes in which to search for signs of new physical phenomena such as extra dimensions of space or dark matter," de Mattia said.
 "Although our measurement agrees with the Standard Model the story is far from over. We are all eagerly waiting the start up of the LHC at higher collisions energies in 2015.
 This will allow us to measure the B-sub-s decays into pairs of muons much more precisely and to look for other even more rare processes that are sensitive to new physical phenomena.
 We can hardly wait for the resumption of the journey of discovery." The Compact Muon Solenoid experiment, or CMS, is a collaboration of more than 175 universities and laboratories from more than 40 countries.
 Many Purdue students and postdoctoral researchers also are involved in the CMS experiment. Related release: Purdue physicists part of discovery of new particle that could be Higgs boson
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-places-fraternity-on-probation.html
<Content> Purdue places fraternity on probation
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University officials announced Monday (March 4) that Delta Chi fraternity has been placed on probation.
 The probation stems from a September registered event at the fraternity during which alcohol was found to have been made available to minors, said Jeffery Stefancic, associate dean of students.
 The probation, given after a review by the university and Interfraternity Council, is in effect through Dec. 14. "We address these matters accordingly when they come to our attention, and, as in any violation with student organizations, we will work with this fraternity as it moves forward in a positive direction," Stefancic said.
 In order to return to good standing, the fraternity is restricted from serving alcohol at any functions during the probation. Members must complete alcohol education programs and other university-assigned educational sanctions.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-plans-to-strengthen-computer-science-program,-educate-more-students.html
<Content> Purdue plans to strengthen computer science program, educate more students
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Strengthening computer science through a 27 percent increase in undergraduate and graduate student enrollment capacity and additional support for strategic research programs is part of a series of initiatives at Purdue University.
 Sunil Prabhakar, a professor and head of the Department of Computer Science, highlighted the increasing demand across all industries and sectors for graduates with the ability to analyze and work with very large sets of data.
 "We have entered an age of big data, where every day massive amounts of digital data are produced that could provide valuable insights for science, agriculture, business and government," he said.
 "Without more computer scientists and greater advances in the tools we use to derive meaning from these massive data sets, economic development and research will slow dramatically.
 Purdue's computer science program is the oldest in the nation and this is yet another opportunity for it to serve as a national model as we prepare more students to design and use technology that will inform policy and drive decision making on the local, national and global levels.
" Prabhakar and Jennifer Neville, an associate professor of computer science and statistics, discussed the Purdue Moves initiative during a presentation Thursday (Nov.
 7) at the President's Forum. "The world is just starting to realize what statisticians and computer scientists have known for years - data is power," Neville said.
 "In the era of big data, where data is being collected at unprecedented rates, computer scientists have a unique set of abilities needed to harness this power.
 That is why their computational and engineering skills are, and will continue to be, in such high demand. This demand is even greater for students with training in data mining and machine learning, since they can take an algorithmic approach to statistical modeling of data.
" Employment of computer and information research scientists is expected to grow by 19 percent from 2010-2020, according to the U.S.
 Department of Labor. Prabhakar said that prediction is especially significant given that these workers are already in demand. "Our students have a near 100 percent placement rate that usually includes multiple offers upon graduation, and our corporate partners span a broad range of industries from Google to Land O'Lakes to Caterpillar," he said.
 "Student enrollment in computer science is robust and growing, as is the need for these skills." The initiative also includes plans to create special programs in the area of data science for several majors, including computer science.
 "Big data is transforming all disciplines and the increasing demand for these skills is evidence of the more central role computer science is playing in business, research and education," he said.
 "Being able to understand and use the powerful tools provided by computer science to evaluate data will be a vital part of top level positions across a broad range of fields in the future.
" The plan also includes hiring additional faculty and staff in order to continue to deliver the high level of education and research for which the department is known and to expand its leadership in the area of computing, he said.
 Purdue will build on its research strengths and centers including the Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security
, or CERIAS, the world's largest multidisciplinary academic center addressing information security and privacy; the Cyber Center, a center focused on cyberinfrastructure and creating systems and tools to disseminate and preserve scientific and engineering knowledge; and 
The Science of Information Center, the state's first National Science Foundation Science and Technology Center for which Purdue was awarded $25 million to develop a new understanding of the representation, communication and processing of information in biological, social and engineered systems.
 The computer science initiative also dovetails with an earlier announced initiative to strengthen Purdue's leadership in developing new and novel ways to help feed a rapidly growing world population.
 A "cyber-sustainability" program will be developed in collaboration with Purdue's College of Agriculture to help analyze and process the massive amounts of agriculture-relevant data collected and reveal valuable insights to improve farming practices, Prabhakar said.
 "There is tremendous untapped potential in the data that is being collected," he said. "The tools created through computer science are what will allow us to leverage that data to make the most data-driven and informed decisions, regardless of the application.
" The university initiatives were selected and developed over several months of work that involved deans, faculty and others at the university.
 Purdue's trustees also have reviewed and given support for the program. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-presents-new-technologies-at-road-show-in-northwest-indiana.html
<Content> Purdue presents new technologies at road show in Northwest Indiana
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind., MERRILLVILLE, Ind. – Purdue University researchers will present a number of innovations at an upcoming Technology Road Show including a new method to improve radiation cancer therapy and an industrial vest to improve sampling procedures of workplace hazards such as chemical or biological agents.
 These and other innovations with high commercialization potential will be presented from 12:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Sept. 18 at the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana, 9800 Connecticut Drive, Crown Point, Ind.
 The road show is presented by Purdue Research Foundation and the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization. The event is free and open to the public, but seating is limited.
 Contact Sally Ross at 765-588-3490 or saross@prf.org by Sept. 11 to make a reservation. Purdue patented technologies include new cancer treatments, alternative fuels, biomedical devices, agriculture innovations and others that are available for licensing through the Office of Technology Commercialization.
 For more information, call 765-588-3475, email otcip@prf.org or visit www.otc-prf.org/otc. The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization
 operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States. Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 Source: Sally Ross, 765-588-3490 or saross@prf.org</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-president-daniels-to-be-part-of-nbcs-education-nation-panel.html
<Content> Purdue President Daniels to be part of NBC's 'Education Nation' panel
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University President Mitch Daniels will be a guest panelist at the fourth annual NBC News Education Nation
, which NBC defines as a national education summit in New York City focused on bringing together the nation's top thought leaders and influential policymakers to discuss the relationship between education and opportunity.
 Daniels will participate in the first session: "What It Takes: More than High School - Disrupting Higher Ed," from 8-9 a.m. Eastern time on Tuesday (Oct.
 8) at the New York Public Library. Joining Daniels on the panel to discuss higher education reform and how MOOCs (massive open online courses) and other technologies are changing the landscape are:
 Chelsea Clinton will moderate the panel, which will be live streamed beginning at 8 a.m. at http://www.educationnation.com/index.cfm?objectid=00CA0890-EE24-11E2-A6E3000C296BA163
. Writer: Shelley Triol, assistant vice president for external relations, striol@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-professor-elected-to-national-academy-of-sciences.html
<Content> Purdue professor elected to National Academy of Sciences
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University professor has been elected into the National Academy of Sciences, one of the highest honors given to a scientist or engineer in the United States.
 Joseph S. Francisco, the William E. Moore Distinguished Professor of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences and Chemistry, will be inducted into the academy next April during its annual meeting in Washington, D.C.
 "Election to membership in the National Academy of Sciences is one of the most prestigious distinctions that can be bestowed on a scientist, and it is an honor not only for Dr.
 Francisco, but also for the College of Science and Purdue," said President Mitch Daniels. "It is a well-deserved honor for Dr. Francisco, who has made his mark through revolutionary research, tireless service to the field through leadership of important scientific societies and mentorship to the next generation of talented scientists.
" Francisco, who also is the associate dean of research and graduate education for the College of Science, was elected to the academy in recognition of his distinguished and continuing achievements in original research.
 His research has revolutionized the understanding of chemical processes in the atmosphere and its ability to break down and remove pollutants.
 He solved a 40-year search for an unusual molecule that is essential to the atmosphere's ability to break down nitric acid, a compound that causes acid rain.
 He also mapped the atmospheric breakdown of chlorofluorocarbons, chemical compounds that destroy the Earth's ozone layer, and leads research into the design of environmentally benign materials to replace these harmful compounds.
 His recent work focuses on understanding the effect of water on fundamental chemical reactions in the atmosphere. Francisco discovered that clouds significantly affect levels of important atmospheric free radicals and identified a new type of chemical bonding, radical-hydrogen bonding.
 Francisco co-authored the textbook "Chemical Kinetics and Dynamics," published by Prentice-Hall, and has published more than 450 peer-reviewed publications in the fields of atmospheric chemistry, chemical kinetics, quantum chemistry, laser photochemistry and spectroscopy.
 Francisco is a past president of the American Chemical Society, the world's largest scientific society, and served as president of the National Organization for the Professional Advancement of Black Chemists and Chemical Engineers.
 He is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences, one of the nation's oldest and most prestigious honorary societies, and is a fellow of the American Physical Society, American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Chemical Society.
 He has received four honorary doctorates from other universities. President Barack Obama appointed Francisco as a member of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science in 2010 and reappointed him this year.
 This committee is responsible for evaluating nominees and selecting recipients of the National Medal of Science, the highest honor awarded by the U.S.
 government to scientists, engineers and innovators. He also currently serves on the National Research Council Board of Science Education.
 Francisco earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Texas at Austin in 1977 and his doctorate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1983.
 He served as a postdoctoral research fellow at Cambridge University from 1983-1985 and was a provost postdoctoral fellow at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1985.
 He served on the faculty of Wayne State University, Michigan, and as a research scientist at Caltech and NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena before coming to Purdue in 1995.
 Francisco is among 84 new members and 21 foreign associates elected to the academy this year. Francisco joins three Purdue colleagues as current members of the academy.
 Those previously elected are H. Jay Melosh, distinguished professor of earth, atmospheric and planetary sciences and physics; Michael Rossmann, the Hanley Distinguished Professor of Biological Sciences; and Jian-Kang Zhu, distinguished professor of plant biology.
 Francisco is the second faculty member from Purdue's Department of Chemistry to be elected to the academy. The late Nobel laureate Herbert C.
 Brown was elected in 1957. Francisco also becomes the second African-American inducted into the academy from the field of chemistry.
 Percy Julian was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1973. The National Academy of Sciences is a private, nonprofit society of distinguished scholars engaged in scientific and engineering research, dedicated to furthering science and technology and their use for the general welfare.
 Established by an Act of Congress, signed by President Abraham Lincoln in 1863, the academy is charged with providing independent, objective advice to the nation on matters related to science and technology.
 Among the academy's renowned members are Albert Einstein, Robert Oppenheimer, Thomas Edison, Orville Wright and Alexander Graham Bell.
 Nearly 200 living academy members have won Nobel Prizes. There are currently 2,179 active members and 437 foreign associates. Foreign associates are nonvoting members of the academy, with citizenship outside the United States.
 For more information, or for the full list of newly elected members, visit http://www.nationalacademies.org. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-professor-elected-to-the-american-academy-of-arts-and-sciences.html
<Content> Purdue professor elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University professor has been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, one of the nation's oldest and most prestigious honorary societies.
 Rakesh Agrawal, the Winthrop E. Stone Distinguished Professor in the School of Chemical Engineering, is among the new class of members named this week.
 "Dr. Agrawal has an extraordinary record of innovations, and his work has had a significant impact on manufacturing and in diverse industries," said Purdue President Mitch Daniels.
 Agrawal holds 118 U.S. patents, nearly 500 non-U.S. patents and has authored 107 technical papers. In 2011 he received the National Medal of Technology and Innovation from President Barack Obama.
 The award is the highest honor for technological achievement bestowed by the president. A member of the National Academy of Engineering, Agrawal served on the National Research Council (NRC) panel that issued a report called "The Hydrogen Economy: Opportunities, Costs, Barriers and R&D Needs.
" He also has served on a national panel concerning America's energy future, and he was a member of the NRC's Board on Energy and Environmental Systems.
 He earned a doctorate in chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1980, a master's degree in chemical engineering from the University of Delaware in 1977 and a bachelor's in chemical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, in 1975.
 Agrawal came to Purdue in 2004 following a career in industry that included 24 years at Air Products and Chemicals Inc. in Allentown, Pa.
 Previously, he has focused on basic and applied research in gas separations, process development, gas liquefication processes, cryogenics and thermodynamics.
 He joins 10 Purdue colleagues as members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Those previously elected to membership are Leah H.
 Jamieson, the John A. Edwardson Dean of Engineering and Ransburg Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering; H.
 Jay Melosh, Distinguished Professor of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences and Physics; Ei-ichi Negishi, Nobel laureate and the Herbert C.
 Brown Distinguished Professor of Chemistry; former Purdue President France A. Córdova; Arden Bement, inaugural director of Purdue's Global Policy Research Institute; R.
 Graham Cooks, the Henry Bohn Hass Distinguished Professor of Chemistry; Joseph Francisco, the William E. Moore Distinguished Professor of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences and Chemistry; Albert Overhauser, the Stuart Distinguished Professor of Physics; Michael Rossmann, the Hanley Distinguished Professor of Biological Sciences; and Freydoon Shahidi, Distinguished Professor of Mathematics.
 The new class will be inducted during a ceremony Oct. 12 at the academy's headquarters in Cambridge, Mass. Members of the 2013 class include winners of the Nobel Prize; National Medal of Science; the Lasker Award; the Pulitzer and the Shaw prizes; the Fields Medal; MacArthur and Guggenheim fellowships; the Kennedy Center Honors; and Grammy, Emmy, Academy and Tony awards.
 A complete list of new members is available on the academy's website at http://www.amacad.org/news/alphalist2013.pdf </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-professor-has-idea-for-improving-the-nba-draft.html
<Content> Purdue professor has idea for improving the NBA draft
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — With the NBA season kicking off Tuesday (Oct. 29), a Purdue University professor has suggested a new format for the league draft designed to make it less likely that a mediocre-performing team would tank toward the end of the season to ensure a higher pick.
 Timothy Bond, an assistant professor of economics, worked with Arup Sen, an economist at a Princeton, N.J.-based consulting group, to develop a system that would have teams use credits to buy slots in the annual draft of new players.
 Currently, teams are awarded draft slots according to their season record, a plan that aims to promote league parity. A team that is doing poorly has less incentive to improve its record as the season wanes.
 Bond and Sen focused on the 2011-12 Golden State Warriors who went 5-22 at the end of the season, giving them a 23-43 record. That was just bad enough for the team to avoid having to give away a protected trade of a draft slot to the Utah Jazz.
 Under the Bond and Sen plan, the rights to draft slots would be sold by auction. Credits would be allocated at the end of the season based on records, with the worst teams receiving more to preserve the attempt at parity.
 But the allocation would be based on a complex formula taking into account the relative performance of all teams in a given season.
 "The system could penalize teams by reducing their credit allocation if they show a drop in performance after the break for the all-star game," Bond said.
 Teams would trade credits rather than draft slots, which would avoid the Golden State situation. Teams also could split up their credits to get more picks rather than a single higher pick.
 "A significant benefit is that we wouldn't have to change the wage structures or the draft, which could avoid a collective bargaining headache," Bond said.
 "We'd just have to add in a pre-draft market to distribute the picks." And another benefit, he said: "Following a month-long bidding process for picks can keep fans of losing teams engaged in a way a one-night draft lottery cannot.
" Source: Timothy Bond, 765-496-3664, bond10@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-professor-identifies-proton-pathway-in-photosynthesis.html
<Content> Purdue professor identifies proton pathway in photosynthesis
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University-led team has revealed the proton transfer pathway responsible for a majority of energy storage in photosynthesis.
 Through photosynthesis, plants, algae and bacteria convert sunlight, carbon dioxide and water into chemical energy stored in the membrane of special cells, a process similar to charging a battery, said William A.
 Cramer, the Henry Koffler Distinguished Professor of Biological Sciences and research team leader. "The key to photosynthesis is the movement of electrical charge from a positive to a negative pole, just as in a battery," Cramer said.
 "In this case, the electrical charge is in the form of electrons and protons passed along by amino acids and water molecules in a 'bucket brigade' through the cellular membrane.
 We identified and found the structure and orientation of the individual bucket carriers." His team looked at the pathway through the cytochrome complex, a group of eight proteins responsible for transporting two-thirds of the protons that energize the plant cell "battery.
" The proteins are made up of different sequences of amino acids, including those that participate in the "bucket brigade" of proton transfer.
 Cramer credits S. Saif Hasan, a graduate student in his research group who will receive his doctoral degree in May, with leading the project.
 The team used X-ray crystallography to describe the molecular structure of the cytochrome complex isolated from cyanobacteria, the most primitive photosynthetic organism.
 A paper detailing the National Institutes of Health-funded work was published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
. Although a mechanism for energy storage involving transfer of protons across biological membranes was the subject of the 1978 Nobel Prize in chemistry and advances had been made in its understanding, the amino acids involved and how they are connected for proton transfer in the photosynthetic protein complex was unknown, Cramer said.
 In addition to Cramer and Hasan, team members include E. Yamashita of the Institute for Protein Chemistry in Osaka, Japan, and D.
 Baniulis of the Lithuanian Research Institute for Agriculture and Forestry. Understanding details of the process of photosynthesis aids work toward the development of artificial photosynthesis, which could allow for the conversion of solar energy into alternative environmentally friendly sources of biofuels.
 The findings also contribute to the understanding of membrane proteins, which regulate all traffic into and out of the cell and are important for drug delivery and structural biology.
 Membrane proteins are fat-soluble, which makes them especially difficult to isolate and crystallize for examination, Cramer said.
 "Membrane proteins dissolve only in fat, not water, and if you pull them out of the cell membrane they tend to congeal like grease on a frying pan dipped in cold water," he said.
 "Scientists have only been able to determine the structure of relatively few of this group of proteins, and we have much more to learn.
" As much as two-thirds of the proton gradient used for transmembrane free energy storage in oxygenic photosynthesis is generated by the cytochrome 
b6f complex. The proton uptake pathway from the electrochemically negative (n) aqueous phase to the n-side quinone binding site of the complex, and a probable route for proton exit to the positive phase resulting from quinol oxidation, are defined in a 2.70-Å crystal structure and in structures with quinone analog inhibitors at 3.07 Å (tridecyl-stigmatellin) and 3.25 Å (2-nonyl-4-hydroxyquinoline N-oxide) resolution.
 The simplest n-side proton pathway extends from the aqueous phase via Asp20 and Arg207 (cytochrome b6 subunit) to quinone bound axially to heme c
n. On the positive side, the heme-proximal Glu78 (subunit IV), which accepts protons from pastosemiquinone, defines a route for H+ transfer to the aqueous phase.
 These pathways provide a structure-based description of the quinone-mediated proton transfer responsible for generation of the transmembrane electrochemical potential gradient in oxygenic photosynthesis.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-professor-named-poptech-science-fellow.html
<Content> Purdue professor named PopTech Science Fellow
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A Purdue University professor has been tapped to become an "ambassador of science" as one of the 2013 class of 
PopTech Fellows. PopTech, a global community of innovators from a broad range of fields including science, technology, design, civic leadership, and the arts and humanities, has named 
Jonathan Wilker one of 10 new science fellows. The science fellows are chosen for their talent, passion for asking big questions, commitment to innovating within their field, interest in communications and leadership, and collaborative spirit.
 Wilker, a professor of chemistry and materials engineering, will give a presentation at 4:30 p.m. today (Oct. 25) as part of the 2013 PopTech annual conference in Camden, Maine.
 The presentation can be watched live at http://new.livestream.com/PopTech/SparksofBrilliance and will be made available on the website after the session concludes.
 Wilker's research focuses on understanding and mimicking the adhesives produced by oysters, mussels and barnacles in order to create new materials including wet-setting adhesives for use in medicine and construction and materials to keep boat hulls clean without harming the environment.
 The science fellows program is designed to help promising scientists become more effective communicators, collaborators and leaders and to develop a corps of highly visible and socially engaged scientific leaders, according to PopTech.
 The fellows are chosen through an invitation-only nomination process and selection by the program's advisory board, which includes science and communications leaders and working scientists.
 PopTech is a nonprofit thought-leadership network that includes science fellows and social innovation fellows programs, conferences and events, laboratories and projects.
 The organization's mission is to accelerate the positive impact of world-changing people, projects and ideas, and to foster unconventional collaborations that tackle some of the world’s most significant challenges and lead to real and lasting change.
 Source: Jonathan Wilker, 765-496-3382, wilker@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-professor-part-of-national-study-of-science-education-specialists.html
<Content> Purdue professor part of national study of science-education specialists
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A new type of science faculty, those who specialize in science education, is on the rise, but less than half have formal training in education, according to a recent study.
 Nancy Pelaez, a Purdue University associate professor of biological sciences, was part of a team that performed the first large-scale study of U.S.
 science faculty with education specialties. This new type of position exists within science departments and focuses on improving undergraduate and kindergarten through 12th-grade science education.
 The study, published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, found that 94 percent of the respondents had originally been trained in basic research and 43 percent had formal training in science education, such as a master's, doctoral degree or graduate fellowship in science education or a K-12 teaching credential.
 "Education training provides important skills and tools that someone trained in basic research may not possess, for instance techniques to evaluate students and reach those who are struggling with material," said Pelaez, who founded the 
Purdue International Biology Education Research Group. "Those without that training may only look at test results as an assessment measure.
 A poor test result identifies a student who is having problems with the material, but it doesn't tell the nature or reason for those problems.
 It also typically comes at a point where it will be difficult to intervene and re-engage the student. Those who have studied or had training in education in addition to their science background better know how to look at the whole process and ways to improve it.
" The study also found that faculty in these positions at master's degree-granting institutions were more likely to have formal training in science education, at 60.9 percent, than those at doctoral degree-granting institutions, at 39.3 percent.
 Despite having a smaller percentage of faculty trained in science education, the study found that faculty at doctoral degree-granting institutions had higher success rates in obtaining funding for science education research and projects.
 "This is an emerging field, and these discrepancies may be due to a lack of a critical mass of people with this training and expertise," Pelaez said.
 "It may be that panels making funding decisions don't understand the value of science education training. That will likely shift as more and more individuals obtain this expertise and sit on such panels.
" The National Science Foundation-funded study included 289 science faculty with education specialties from 45 states, Washington, D.C.
, and Puerto Rico. "Science faculty with education specialties is a widespread and growing group," Pelaez said. "It is clear science departments recognize the value in these positions in improving teaching and learning because such positions were found across the nation and within different types of institutions.
" Although this type of faculty is on the rise, there are only a handful of programs training them, Pelaez said. "Some of the science faculty with education specialties may be seeking to educate themselves, but aren't finding many opportunities to do so," she said.
 "We need to increase the opportunities available. It doesn't have to happen in a set, prescribed way, but it is important for them to obtain these skills.
 Knowing science is only one part of being a great teacher of science or researcher of science-education methods." Purdue offers doctoral degree programs to train graduate students in biology, chemistry and physics to do education work.
 In addition, Purdue's International Biology Education Research Group collaborates with science faculty across the United States and internationally to provide opportunities for formal training in science education and holds weekly open meetings where any faculty member or student can come to learn more about science education, she said.
 Pelaez is a member of a collaborative team of six co-authors who contributed equally to this research. In addition to Pelaez, the research team includes Seth Bush of California Polytechnic State University, James Rudd II of California State University, Michael Stevens of Utah Valley University, Kimberly Tanner of San Francisco State University and Kathy Williams of San Diego State University.
 Pelaez also was part of a research team that performed a 2008 study of the characteristics and training of science faculty with education specialties in the California State University system.
 A paper detailing that study was published in the journal Science. Widespread Distribution and Unexpected Variation Among Science Faculty with Education Specialties (SFES) Across the United States
 Seth D. Bush, Nancy J. Pelaez, James A. Rudd II, Michael T. Stevens, Kimberly D. Tanner, and Kathy S. Williams College and university science departments are increasingly taking an active role in improving science education.
 Perhaps as a result, a new type of specialized science faculty position within science departments is emerging - referred to here as science faculty with education specialties - where individual scientists focus their professional efforts on strengthening undergraduate science education, improving kindergarten- through 12th-grade science education, and conducting discipline-based education research.
 Numerous assertions, assumptions, and questions about SFES exist, yet no national studies have been published. Here, we present findings from a large-scale study of U.S.
 SFES, who are widespread and increasing in numbers. Contrary to many assumptions, SFES were indeed found across the nation, across science disciplines and, most notably, across primarily undergraduate, master of science-granting and Ph.D.
-granting institutions. Data also reveal unexpected variations among SFES by institution type. Among respondent, SFES at master of science-granting institutions were almost twice as likely to have formal training in science education compared with other SFES.
 In addition, SFES at Ph.D.-granting institutions were much more likely to have obtained science education funding. Surprisingly, formal training in science education provided no advantage in obtaining science education funding.
 Our findings show that the SFES phenomenon is likely more complex and diverse than anticipated, with differences being more evident across institution types than across science disciplines.
 These findings raise questions about the origins of differences among SFES and are useful to science departments interested in hiring SFES, scientific trainees preparing for SFES careers, and agencies awarding science education funding.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-professor-receives-koreas-highest-research-honor.html
<Content> Purdue professor receives South Korea's highest research honor
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University distinguished professor Sangtae Kim has received the 2013 Ho-Am Engineering Prize from South Korea, the highest engineering research award issued by that nation.
 Kim, distinguished professor of mechanical and chemical engineering, currently is on leave from Purdue. He is a visiting professor of chemical engineering at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where he was a faculty member from 1983-1997, becoming a distinguished professor and department chair.
 The award includes a prize of about $265,000, a gold medal and a laureate diploma and is issued in five categories: science, engineering, medicine, the arts and community service
 "This recognition is a testament to Dr. Kim's outstanding accomplishments," said Arvind Varma, R. Games Slayter Distinguished Professor of Chemical Engineering and Jay and Cynthia Ihlenfeld Head of Purdue's School of Chemical Engineering.
 "He has been an influential scholar in the field of chemical engineering for the past three decades and has had tremendous impact.
 The honor also speaks highly of Purdue research." He is founder and chairman of ProWD Sciences Inc., a Wisconsin drug-discovery and drug-development company, and he is a member of the National Academy of Engineering.
 He came to Purdue in 2003 from Eli Lilly and Co. in Indianapolis, where he was the Lilly Research Laboratories' vice president and information officer in research and development.
 Before that he was vice president for scientific information resources at Pfizer Global Research and Development, a division of Pfizer Inc.
 He joined Lilly in 2000 from Parke-Davis Pharmaceutical Research. In 2008 he was named executive director of the Morgridge Institute for Research at the UW-Madison.
 He served as inaugural director of the National Science Foundation's Shared Cyberinfrastructure Division from 2004-2005. Kim's research has included work in mathematical and computational methods for "microhydrodynamics.
" The work involves using powerful computers and mathematical methods to learn how proteins interact with other "microstructures" inside cells and to design electronic devices that may "self-assemble," similar to the growth of structures in living organisms.
 In self-assembly, devices might eventually be fabricated using techniques based on chemical attractions, rather than the complex and expensive processes now used.
 While a faculty member of the University of Wisconsin, Kim led research programs funded by NSF and the Office of Naval Research.
 His research has included the use of numerous computers linked together to perform "massively parallel processing" to discover new drugs and development of a new class of radio-frequency identification devices by creating manufacturing processes that operate at the scale of nanometers, or billionths of a meter.
 He continued this research at Purdue. He holds bachelor's and master's degrees from the California Institute of Technology and a doctorate from Princeton University.
 His research has been featured in more than 70 publications, including journal papers, proceedings, books, and a patent. His book "Microhydrodynamics: Principles & Selected Applications" was published in 1991.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-professor-wins-dreyfus-prize-in-the-chemical-sciences.html
<Content> Purdue professor wins Dreyfus Prize in the Chemical Sciences
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University professor has won the 2013 Dreyfus Prize in Chemical Sciences, this year awarded in the field of chemical instrumentation.
 R. Graham Cooks, the Henry Bohn Hass Distinguished Professor of Chemistry, won the biennial international prize in recognition of his innovations in the field of mass spectrometry and analytical chemistry.
 "Graham Cooks has invented technology for quick chemical analysis that has applications ranging from medicine to food safety to national security," said Purdue President Mitch Daniels.
 "His work has led to more than 40 patents and four companies, as well as the establishment of Purdue's internationally recognized Center for Analytical Instrumentation Development.
 Advances made in his laboratory have not only shaped his field of science, but also created tools to keep us safer and to make medical tests easier and treatments more precise.
 It is a testament to Dr. Cooks' exceptional work that he is recognized with the prestigious Dreyfus Prize." The international prize, given biennially by the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, consists of $250,000, a citation and a medal.
 A presentation ceremony, featuring a lecture by Cooks, will be held at Purdue in the fall. "Chemical instrumentation has shaped human life in a myriad of positive ways," said Henry C.
 Walter, president of the Dreyfus Foundation. "Graham Cooks is a consummate innovator, and it is a great pleasure to recognize him with the third Dreyfus Prize.
" Cooks is a pioneer in the field of mass spectrometry, which identifies the contents of a sample by measuring the mass of its ions, or electrically charged molecules.
 Early in his career Cooks revolutionized the field through the development of tandem mass spectrometry, which allowed for the quantification of the molecules present as well as their identification.
 He later developed ambient ionization techniques that paved the way for faster, more portable mass spectrometry devices. The techniques eliminated the need for samples to be chemically manipulated and contained in a vacuum chamber for analysis and allowed testing to be done in the air or directly on a surface in its natural environment.
 Cooks' and his collaborator, Purdue associate professor of biomedical engineering and electrical and computer engineering Zheng Ouyang, then miniaturized the once sedan-sized mass spectrometer to a shoebox-sized device ready to leave the laboratory.
 The mini mass spectrometers have been likened to Star Trek's tricorder device, which can instantly identify the molecules present on a surface or in the air.
 Cooks and his team have fine-tuned the tools for use in molecular imaging for cancer diagnostics and surgery; therapeutic drug monitoring; testing for biomarkers in urine; and the identification of food-borne pathogens, bacteria, pesticides and explosives residues.
 "Mass spectrometry has had an extraordinary impact on modern science, and Graham Cooks has changed the field in many important ways," said Richard N.
 Zare, the Marguerite Blake Wilbur Professor in Natural Science at Stanford University and a Dreyfus Foundation board member. "He has developed critical new experimental instruments and methods and applied them to solve significant problems.
" Cooks earned his bachelor's degree and doctorate from the University of Natal, South Africa, and a doctorate from Cambridge University.
 He has been at Purdue since 1971. Cooks' many honors include American Chemical Society awards in Chemical Instrumentation, Mass Spectrometry, Analytical Chemistry and the F.A Cotton Award.
 He has been recognized internationally with both the Robert Boyle Medal and the Centennial Prize of the Royal Society of Chemistry.
 Cooks is the author of more than 900 scientific papers and has directed the doctoral research of more than 100 graduate students, many of whom hold positions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
 He is associated with several Purdue research centers, including Bindley Bioscience Center, the Purdue Center for Cancer Research and the Center for Analytical Instrumentation Development.
 The Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, based in New York, is a leading non-profit organization devoted to the advancement of the chemical sciences.
 It was established in 1946 by chemist, inventor and businessman Camille Dreyfus, who directed that the foundation's purpose be "to advance the science of chemistry, chemical engineering and related sciences as a means of improving human relations and circumstances.
" In broad terms, foundation programs advance young faculty of early accomplishment, develop leadership in environmental chemistry, and enhance chemistry education and public interest in chemistry.
 The inaugural Dreyfus Prize was awarded to George Whitesides of Harvard University in the field of materials chemistry 2009. The 2011 Dreyfus Prize was awarded to Tobin Marks of Northwestern University in the field of catalysis.
 The Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation Cooks and Ouyang discuss the mini mass spectrometer and its potential applications: http://www.nsf.gov/news/news_videos.jsp?cntn_id=106774&media_id=58204&org=NSF
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-profs-use-gaming-to-spark-kids-stem-interest,-improve-physical-fitness.html
<Content> Purdue profs use gaming to spark kids' STEM interest, improve physical fitness
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A team of Purdue technology researchers will use a $1.2 million National Science Foundation grant to tackle two national challenges: increasing children's interest in science, technology, engineering and math; and decreasing childhood obesity.
 The three-year Teaching Engineering Concepts to Harness Future Innovators and Technologists (TECHFIT) project parlays kids' innate interest in video games and solving big problems to inspire them to gain the STEM skills needed to create technology-based fitness games.
 College of Technology professors Brad and Alka Harriger will train Indiana middle school teachers how to help their students create exergames that require players to get up and move.
 Getting young gamers more active can help reduce rampant childhood obesity in the United States. More importantly, showing how STEM knowledge and skills help address societal problems such obesity can get more children to study STEM subjects.
 "We looked at existing systems like Dance Dance Revolution and Wii Fit and wondered how we could use something similar to get kids excited about our academic fields," said Brad Harriger, professor of 
mechanical engineering technology, and the project's principal investigator. "We really liked the idea of tying in fitness." TECHFIT teacher workshops begin in the summer of 2014.
 Those teachers will return to their schools to teach 10-week afterschool programs that use technology to create fitness games. At the end of the program, participating teams will gather to show off their fitness innovations.
 Brad and Alka Harriger, a professor of computer information technology, will work with teachers from four Indiana schools who will each instruct 20 students.
 Brad and Alka have partnered with former Purdue professors Mike and Susan Flynn, now at the College of Charleston, to similarly train five South Carolina schools.
 The four professors met while watching their sons wrestle for a local high school. While brainstorming, they conceived TECHFIT, which incorporates each of their areas of expertise: controls, computing, and health and kinesiology.
 "We received positive feedback from students, parents and teachers," said Alka Harriger. "We are very happy that our perseverance and strong belief in the concept paid off.
" Interested teachers should contact Brad Harriger at bcharrig@purdue.edu or Alka Harriger at harrigea@purdue.edu for more information.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-programs-help-youth-learn-about-veterinary-medicine-careers.html
<Content> Purdue programs help youth learn about veterinary medicine careers
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Several programs for families with elementary through high school students interested in learning more about the veterinary medical profession are being offered by the Purdue University 
College of Veterinary Medicine. The PVM Family Program Series begins Thursday (Oct. 3) with a session focused on the topic of chickens.
 All presentations are free, but registration is required due to limited seating. Contact Adrianne Fisch, fischa@purdue.edu to register.
 All sessions will be from 6-7 p.m. in Lynn Hall of Veterinary Medicine, Room 1136. Presentations will include: * Oct. 3. "Chickens Gone Wild!
 The Secret Life of Poultry," with Dr. Pat Wakenell, a veterinarian who specializes in poultry. Wakenell, associate professor of avian diagnostics in the Department of Comparative Pathobiology, is the avian diagnostic pathologist with the Indiana Animal Disease Diagnostic Lab.
 * Nov. 7. "What Does a Horse Veterinarian Do?," with Dr. Amanda Farr, a veterinarian who works in PVM's Equine Community Practice.
 * Dec. 5. "Laboratory Animal Medicine: Improving the Lives of all Creatures Great and Small," with Dr. Tracy Vemulapalli, a veterinarian and expert on safety and care of laboratory animals.
 * Jan. 9. "Pet Emergencies," with Dr. Paula Johnson, a veterinarian who works in the PVM Animal Emergency Service. * Feb. 6. "Snakes Alive!
," with Dr. Steve Thompson, a veterinarian in the PVM Pet Wellness Clinic, who will discuss his work with snakes. * March 6. "Veterinary Technology – Animal Nursing," with instructional technologist Maggie Lump, who will talk about being a nurse for animals.
 For more information on the PVM Family Program Series, visit http://vet.purdue.edu/engagement/p12/family-program-series.php Sources:
 Sandra San Miguel, associate dean for engagement, College of Veterinary Medicine, 765-494-8052, amass@purdue.edu Kevin Doerr, director of alumni relations and public affairs, 765-494-8216, 
doerrkr@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-projects-help-cities-increase-efficiency,-cut-costs.html
<Content> Purdue projects help cities increase efficiency, cut costs
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. —Purdue University's Technical Assistance Program and students in a senior-level industrial engineering class combined efforts this spring to work on 10 projects for two Indiana cities.
 TAP and student teams worked on seven projects for the city of Lafayette and three projects for Noblesville, all designed to improve efficiency and performance and reduce costs.
 "This was a great opportunity for our students to work on real-world projects while helping fulfill TAP's mission of aiding Indiana governments and businesses in their efforts to increase efficiency," said Mark Lehto, an industrial engineering professor who teaches the class.
 The projects covered a range of issues the cities faced, with a goal of improving a service, function or quality and/or reducing costs.
 One project in Lafayette addressed the routing used for street sweeping trucks and the transport of those trucks' collected waste to the landfill.
 The recommendations are expected to save 30 truck hours per year in landfill trips and to decrease the route lengths for sweeping by using optimized route planning.
 "I firmly believe that government must continually work to bring high value to its taxpayers. The Purdue Technical Assistance Program does just that," said Lafayette Mayor Tony Roswarski.
 "By having these students take a comprehensive look from the outside, it brings a fresh perspective to our operations. This type of independent analysis is critical to ensuring the City of Lafayette is as efficient as possible.
" In Noblesville, a student team created an Excel-based scheduling and payroll system and database for the police department. It is expected to cut down on time spent under the current process, which involves manual calculations.
 "The students were truly a pleasure to work with," said assistant police chief Scott Kirby. "They met with us multiple times and took a complicated payroll system, that was still being created by hand, and produced a prototype computer program that gave us a road map to make our system more efficient and cost effective.
" Since 1986 TAP programs and services have assisted more than 12,000 organizations, trained more than 26,000 employees, created or retained $872 million in sales, increased capital investments by $217 million, contributed to cost savings of $107 million, and created or retained more than 11,000 jobs in Indiana.
 In addition to the 10 projects for the cities, students in the senior design class did another 21 projects, including seven for health care providers, three for Purdue Memorial Union and residence halls, and 11 for companies and manufacturers.
 Source: Mark Lehto, 765-494-5428, lehto@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-quidditch-team-gets-ready-for-potted-potter.html
<Content> Purdue Quidditch Team gets ready for 'Potted Potter'
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.— In celebration of the upcoming performances of "Potted Potter," the Purdue University Quidditch Team will host a series of matches from 6:15-7:15 p.m.
 Oct. 15 at Wabash Field, at the corner of State and McCormick. The Purdue students and the general public are welcome to attend and participate in the matches
 "Potted Potter" will come to Purdue University's Loeb Playhouse at 7 and 9:30 p.m. Oct. 17. The performances are presented by Purdue Convocations
. "Potted Potter - The Unauthorized Harry Experience - a Parody by Dan and Jeff" takes on the challenge of condensing all seven Harry Potter books (and a real life game of Quidditch) into 70 minutes.
 Even if you don't know the difference between a horcrux and a Hufflepuff, Potted Potter will make you laugh. Created by two-time Olivier Award-nominated actors Daniel Clarkson and Jefferson Turner, "Potted Potter" is appropriate for ages 6 to Dumbledore (who is very old indeed).
 Tickets are $38 for adults and $28 for those 18 years and younger, Purdue students and Ivy Tech Lafayette students. Tickets are available at the Elliott Hall and Stewart Center box offices at 765-494-3933, 800-914-SHOW or online through 
http://www.convocations.org. Initiated in 1902, Purdue Convocations was one of the first professional performing arts presenters in the United States.
 Each year, Convocations offers the region 20-30 performances of widely varying genres. Purdue Convocations aims to promote frequent exposure to and familiarity with human cultural expression in a multitude of forms and media.
 Note to Journalists: Publication-quality photographs are available at http://www.convocations.org/press NOTE TO JOURNALISTS: The place of Tuesday's (Oct.
 15) Quidditch match has been changed from a previous version of this news release. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-readies-rollout-of-major-campus-initiatives.html
<Content> Purdue readies rollout of major campus initiatives
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue President Mitch Daniels is preparing to announce a series of initiatives at the university's West Lafayette campus designed to enhance student achievement and address some of the major questions facing higher education.
 Daniels will report on Purdue's new agenda - designed to place Purdue among the world's leading academic institutions - at a University Senate meeting on Sept.
 9 and a President's Forum on Sept. 12. The forum will be one of three during the fall semester to focus on Purdue's 10 next big moves.
 All will feature Daniels along with panelists who are leading the new initiatives. "We in higher education are facing questions - and rightfully so - about the cost of college and what we deliver for the money," Daniels said.
 "This plan aims to address some of those questions while enhancing what Purdue has always done best: produce brilliant research and students who are well-rounded and ready to go into the world and make an impact where our nation needs it most.
" All of the moves that will be rolled out fall into the following categories: science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) achievement; world-changing research; transformative education; and affordability and accessibility.
 Daniels said the initiatives were developed over several months of work that involved deans, faculty and others at the university.
 The university's trustees also have reviewed and given support for the program. "This plan presents an extraordinary opportunity for Purdue to set itself apart by decisively answering the tough questions and sending the message that we are serious about our students and our research," said Thomas Spurgeon, chair of the university's Board of Trustees.
 "When combined with the ongoing excellence across our campus, these new initiatives will place Purdue among the world's greatest academic institutions and serve as a source of pride for our alumni, students and supporters.
" Thomas Spurgeon, trustees@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-receives-1.2-million-to-study-large-aging-population-with-multiple-chronic-conditions.html
<Content> Purdue receives $1.2 million to study large aging population with multiple chronic conditions
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University professor has received a $1.2 million grant from the National Institute of Aging to study why some older adults living with two or more chronic medical conditions, such as diabetes or heart problems, are more likely than others to succumb to the effects of aging.
 "The term for living with multiple chronic conditions is multimorbidity, and the implication is that it can lead to disability and mortality.
 The more conditions you have, the more likely you are to suffer from things we typically associate with aging, such as memory loss, disability or early death," said 
Elliot Friedman, an assistant professor of human development and family studies. "But some people with multimorbidity have a reasonably high quality of life and remain active.
 So what are the key differences between these people and the ones who become disabled or cognitively impaired?" Friedman's five-year study will look mainly at two possible influences for those who live active and longer lives despite having multiple chronic conditions.
 The first is the role of positive psychosocial factors, such as social support and a strong sense of purpose in life. The second is the involvement of a class of proteins involved in inflammation that are thought to contribute to a number of age-related conditions, including disability and cognitive impairment.
 The idea is that positive psychosocial factors are protective and will lower the levels of inflammation, leading in turn to lower rates of disability, better cognitive functioning and longer life.
 The project will use data from the National Survey of Midlife Development in the United States (MIDUS), which is a long-term study of American adults from the 1990s to this decade.
 This survey collects individual health information on adults every 10 years. More than 70 percent of Americans 65 and older have two or more chronic conditions, and that increases to 90 percent in those older than 85.
 The conditions Friedman will focus on in this study are heart problems, hypertension, cancer, asthma, arthritis, HIV/AIDS, diabetes, obesity, neurological disorders, stroke and ulcers.
 "These conditions are often studied individually, with an eye to understanding specific causes and cures," said Friedman, who specializes in aging issues with emphasis on how psychosocial experiences affect aging and physical health.
 "But we now have a fair amount of evidence that social and psychological factors can affect your likelihood of getting multiple diseases.
 As the population ages and the number of adults with these life-altering conditions is growing rapidly, it's becoming more important to understand the role of these non-medical factors in the onset and consequences of age-related diseases.
" Most of the research on multimorbidity looks at the costs and complexities of treatment, such as how treating one condition can affect the treatment for the other.
 "Our hope is that this project will contribute new information about how people with multiple chronic conditions can retain a high quality of life in their later years," Friedman said.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-receives-1.2-million-to-study-large-aging-population-with-multiple-chronic-conditions.html
<Content> Purdue receives $1.2 million to study large aging population with multiple chronic conditions
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University professor has received a $1.2 million grant from the National Institute of Aging to study why some older adults living with two or more chronic medical conditions, such as diabetes or heart problems, are more likely than others to succumb to the effects of aging.
 "The term for living with multiple chronic conditions is multimorbidity, and the implication is that it can lead to disability and mortality.
 The more conditions you have, the more likely you are to suffer from things we typically associate with aging, such as memory loss, disability or early death," said 
Elliot Friedman, an assistant professor of human development and family studies. "But some people with multimorbidity have a reasonably high quality of life and remain active.
 So what are the key differences between these people and the ones who become disabled or cognitively impaired?" Friedman's five-year study will look mainly at two possible influences for those who live active and longer lives despite having multiple chronic conditions.
 The first is the role of positive psychosocial factors, such as social support and a strong sense of purpose in life. The second is the involvement of a class of proteins involved in inflammation that are thought to contribute to a number of age-related conditions, including disability and cognitive impairment.
 The idea is that positive psychosocial factors are protective and will lower the levels of inflammation, leading in turn to lower rates of disability, better cognitive functioning and longer life.
 The project will use data from the National Survey of Midlife Development in the United States (MIDUS), which is a long-term study of American adults from the 1990s to this decade.
 This survey collects individual health information on adults every 10 years. More than 70 percent of Americans 65 and older have two or more chronic conditions, and that increases to 90 percent in those older than 85.
 The conditions Friedman will focus on in this study are heart problems, hypertension, cancer, asthma, arthritis, HIV/AIDS, diabetes, obesity, neurological disorders, stroke and ulcers.
 "These conditions are often studied individually, with an eye to understanding specific causes and cures," said Friedman, who specializes in aging issues with emphasis on how psychosocial experiences affect aging and physical health.
 "But we now have a fair amount of evidence that social and psychological factors can affect your likelihood of getting multiple diseases.
 As the population ages and the number of adults with these life-altering conditions is growing rapidly, it's becoming more important to understand the role of these non-medical factors in the onset and consequences of age-related diseases.
" Most of the research on multimorbidity looks at the costs and complexities of treatment, such as how treating one condition can affect the treatment for the other.
 "Our hope is that this project will contribute new information about how people with multiple chronic conditions can retain a high quality of life in their later years," Friedman said.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-receives-transformation-grant-from-nsfs-alliances-for-graduate-education-and-professoriate-program.html
<Content> Purdue receives Transformation grant from NSF's Alliances for Graduate Education and Professoriate program
 Purdue receives Transformation grant from NSF's Alliances for Graduate Education and Professoriate program WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University has been awarded a Transformation grant from the National Science Foundation's Alliances for Graduate Education and the Professoriate (AGEP) program.
 The $345,740 grant is to support Purdue's participation in the Committee on Institutional Cooperation's (CIC) Professorial Advancement Initiative (PAI).
 The AGEP program helps develop and implement models and standards for STEM graduate education, postdoctoral training and academic career preparation that remove or reduce barriers for underrepresented minorities.
 The CIC AGEP PAI is a collaboration between the University of Illinois and Purdue to partner with other members of the CIC: Indiana University, the University of Iowa, University of Michigan, Michigan State University, University of Minnesota, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Northwestern University, Ohio State University, Penn State University, and the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
 It seeks to bring more underrepresented minority postdoctoral scholars into faculty positions. "African Americans, Hispanic Americans and Native Americans, as well as women, are significantly underrepresented in the STEM fields," said Mark J.T.
 Smith, dean of the Purdue Graduate School and co-principal investigator for the grant. "Student and faculty diversity on campus enhances the overall quality of education, which is important to our future STEM workforce.
 Our new CIC AGEP initiative is aimed at increasing faculty diversity within the CIC universities." "We're focusing on post-docs and trying to help them prepare for faculty positions," Smith said.
 "We have a research team that will be analyzing the effectiveness of our cross-campus CIC mentoring and the impact the program has on the post-doc participants.
 "Studies have shown that unconscious bias and misperceptions of excellence can be factors in the decision-making process that can negatively impact underrepresented minorities and women.
 A major part of the CIC AGEP initiative is working with search committees on all the participating CIC campuses to acquaint them with the literature in this area.
" The total award from the National Science Foundation to support the CIC AGEP initiative is $1,417,500. The grant spans a 3 1/2-year period.
 Source: Mark J.T. Smith, 765-494-2604, mjts@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/purdue-recognizes-five-new-boilermakers.html
<Content> Purdue recognizes five new Boilermakers
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Purdue University is recognizing five students who are new Boilermakers this academic year. Purdue Marketing and Media has developed a website at 
http://www.purdue.edu/fivestudents/new-boilermakers/ that includes information about the students who are eager to start the next chapter in their lives.
 *Logan Hettinger of Jasper, Ind., who is studying engineering. When not studying or pursuing his goal of making the Purdue baseball team as a walk-on, Hettinger helps with the Special Olympics, where he serves as a unified partner alongside his cousin, who has autism.
 *Elliot Mathieu of Little Rock, Ark., who is majoring in actuarial science. The son of Haitian immigrants, Mathieu held a summer internship with an EEOC lawyer and hopes to use actuarial science as a way to combine three of his interests - debate, math and science.
 *Johanna Rohler of Indianapolis, who is studying dietetics. She hopes to use her knowledge to work in a hospital environment and be involved with short-term mission work around the world.
 *Dana Smith of Livonia, Mich., who is studying math. Smith takes the phrase "student responsibility" seriously and looks to build on a high school resume that includes being a class president, four-year member of the Quiz Bowl team, a stellar scholar and member of the golf team.
 *Elizabeth Stanley of Great Falls, Mont., who is studying broadcast journalism. After graduating from Purdue, she hopes to become a network news anchor in one of the top markets, such as New York City or Los Angeles.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-recognizes-new-graduates,-honor-students.html
<Content> Purdue recognizes new graduates, honor students
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University awarded about 7,100 degrees to students following the spring semester. WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - About 14,900 Purdue University students earned academic honors for the spring 2013 semester. To earn honors, students must have had at least a 3.5 semester or cumulative grade point average on a four-point scale.
 Note to Journalists: Information about recent graduates and honor students from your coverage area is available at http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/students/gradhonors.html
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-reorganizes-printing-operation,-reduces-staff.html
<Content> Purdue reorganizes printing operation, reduces staff
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Fewer printing projects and loss of revenue have forced a reorganization of Purdue University's Printing Services, resulting in staff layoffs and reduced services.
 Expenses had outpaced revenue over the last few years as demand for high-end printed materials dropped and electronic messaging and Web projects supplanted printed communications.
 Printing Services, which is required to be self-supporting, had expanded into digital printing and targeted mailing services, but it wasn't enough, said Robert McMains, vice president for physical facilities, which oversees Printing Services.
 "The operation was working effectively, but the work wasn't there. We were looking at an estimated deficit of about $700,000 by the end of the fiscal year, and we couldn't afford that," McMains said.
 "The staff is talented and hard-working, but the demand for print materials has dropped dramatically." Printing Services employs 48 people working two shifts.
 Of those, 33 staff members will be placed in layoff status, which means their final day at Printing Services will be May 3. They will receive medical benefits for an additional 120 days and priority consideration for other job openings on campus.
 Fifteen people will remain. Continuing services include course packets and copyright clearances, duplication services, letterhead and stationery printing, bulk and targeted mailings, promotional products, and print management that includes brokering jobs to outside printers.
 Printing Services also will continue to provide secure printing for payroll and tax documents and student billing statements. There will be limited support for binding, archiving and design services for print and electronic projects.
 The BoilerCopyMaker Center in the Purdue Memorial Union will remain open, but the three satellite printing centers in academic buildings will close.
 A separate review announced in February to evaluate systemwide university printing needs and options for addressing those needs will continue, McMains said.
 Source: Robert McMains, 765-494-8000, remcmains@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-research-foundation-to-recognize-university-researchers-who-received-patents.html
<Content> Purdue Research Foundation to recognize university researchers who received patents
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Forty-seven Purdue University faculty and staff whose discoveries were patented during the 2011-2012 fiscal year will be recognized Wednesday (April 3) at the Purdue Research Foundation's eighth annual Inventors Recognition Reception.
 During the fiscal year July 1, 2011, to June 30, 2012, Purdue Research Foundation officials reported 356 invention disclosures, 446 patent applications worldwide, 95 issued patents worldwide and the creation of five startups from Purdue-licensed technologies.
 "Purdue faculty, staff and students strive to make people's lives healthier, happier or more productive when they develop new products and processes," said Elizabeth Hart-Wells, assistant vice president and director of the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization.
 "The issuance of patents to protect intellectual property increases the potential this work will be translated into products and services for the public.
 The number of patents issued to Purdue-related discoveries has more than tripled from 31 in 2007-2008, which is a credit to the innovative faculty, staff, post-doctorate students and graduate students throughout the university's campuses.
" * Saurabh Bagchi, associate professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering * Osman Basaran, Burton and Kathryn Gedge Professor of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering
 * Richard B. Borgens, Mari Hulman George Professor of Applied Neuroscience, College of Veterinary Medicine; professor, Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering; director, Institute for Applied Neurology, Center for Paralysis Research
 * Charles A. Bouman, Michael and Katherine Birck Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering; professor, Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering
 * Stephen R. Byrn, Charles B. Jordan Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, Department of Industrial and Physical Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy
 * William J. Chappell, professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering * Jason V. Clark, assistant professor, School of Mechanical Engineering; assistant professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering
 * R. Graham Cooks, Henry B. Hass Distinguished Professor of Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, College of Science * James A. Cooper, Jai N.
 Gupta Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering * Mark S.
 Cushman, Distinguished Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy
 * V. Jo Davisson, professor, Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy * David S. Ebert, Silicon Valley Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering
 * William G. Frederick, professor emeritus, Department of Mathematical Sciences, College of Arts and Sciences, Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne
 * James L. Garrison, associate professor, School of Aeronautics and Astronautics, College of Engineering * Stephen D. Heister, Raisbeck Engineering Distinguished Professor, School of Aeronautics and Astronautics; director, Maurice J.
 Zucrow Laboratories * Klein E. Ileleji, associate professor and extension engineer, Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, College of Agriculture and College of Engineering
 * Monika Ivantysynova, Maha Fluid Power Systems Professor, School of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering; professor, Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, College of Agriculture, College of Engineering
 * Jere Jenkins, director, Radiation Laboratories, School of Nuclear Engineering, College of Engineering * Alexander V. Kildishev, associate research professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering
 * James V. Krogmeier, associate professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering * Gary Krutz, professor, Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, College of Agriculture and College of Engineering
 * Lawrence A. Kuznar, professor, Department of Anthropology, College of Arts and Sciences, Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne
 * David J. Love, associate professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering * Philip S. Low, Ralph C.
 Corley Distinguished Professor of Biochemistry, Department of Chemistry, College of Science * Suresh K. Mittal, professor, Department of Comparative Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine
 * Steven D. Pekarek, professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering * Jenna L. Rickus, associate professor, Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, College of Agriculture and College of Engineering; associate professor, Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering; College of Engineering
 * David A. Sanders, associate professor, Markey Center for Structural Biology, Department of Biological Sciences, College of Science
 * Robert L. Sedlmeyer, associate chair and associate professor, Department of Computer Science, College of Engineering, Technology and Computer Science, Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne
 * Vladimir M. Shalaev, Robert and Anne Burnett Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering
 * Riyi Shi, professor, Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine; professor, Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering
 * Yung C. Shin, Donald A. and Nancy G. Roach Professor of Advanced Manufacturing, School of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering
 * Daniel T. Smith, senior research scientist, Department of Industrial and Physical Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy * John M. Starkey, associate professor, School of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering
 * Bernard Y. Tao, Indiana Soybean Board Professor in Soybean Utilization, Department of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, College of Agriculture, College of Engineering
 * Sherry L. Voytik-Harbin, associate professor, Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering; associate professor, Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine
 *Andrew M. Weiner, Scifres Family Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering
 Mikhail Atallah, Distinguished Professor of Computer Science in the College of Science, will receive the 2012-2013 Outstanding Commercialization Award for Purdue University Faculty at the reception.
 He co-founded Arxan Technologies Inc. in 2001 and has served on its board of scientific advisers since then. The company has developed software protection that is used in more than 200 million computing devices.
 Previous recipients include Lonnie D. Bentley, professor of computer and information technology; Stephen R. Byrn, the Charles B.
 Jordan Professor of Medicinal Chemistry; Alok Chaturvedi, professor of management; R. Graham Cooks, the Henry B. Hass Distinguished Professor of Chemistry; the late Leslie A.
 Geddes, the Showalter Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering; Philip Low, the Ralph C. Corley Distinguished Professor of Biochemistry; Karthik Ramani, the Donald W.
 Feddersen Professor of Mechanical Engineering; Fred Regnier, the J.H. Law Distinguished Professor of Analytical Chemistry; and George Wodicka, head of the Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering.
 The award was established with an endowment gift from the Central Indiana Corporate Partnership Foundation. The Purdue Research Foundation
 is a private, nonprofit foundation created to advance the mission of Purdue University. Established in 1930, the foundation accepts gifts, administers trusts, funds scholarships and grants, and acquires property on behalf of Purdue.
 The foundation oversees the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization, which operates one of the most comprehensive technology transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 In the 1990s, the foundation was charged with helping the university in the realm of economic development. The foundation oversees the Purdue Research Park, which is the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 Note to Journalists: The media are invited to attend the eighth annual Inventors Recognition Reception. The awards presentation will take place in the Herman and Heddy Kurz Purdue Technology Center, 1281 Win Hentschel Blvd.
, West Lafayette. The presentation begins at 6:30 p.m., and is preceded by the reception at 5:30 p.m. Interviews with faculty researchers or Elizabeth Hart-Wells, director of the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization, can be arranged through Steve Martin, (765) 588-3342, 
sgmartin@prf.org. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-research-park-based-firm-advocates-for-patients-peace-of-mind.html
<Content> Purdue Research Park-based firm advocates for patients' peace of mind
 MERRILLVILLE, Ind. - Patients who need assistance to understand medical bills, obtain coverage for medical services, pay claims or appeal denied claims, or negotiate discounts for medical payment plans could benefit from a firm that has become a Purdue Research Park tenant.
 My Patient Advocate protects patients' rights and helps them make better informed decisions about healthcare options and services.
 Terri Metro, CEO and founder, spent more than 20 years working with physicians and hospitals as a healthcare consultant, practice administrator and medical billing specialist.
 She said patients can often feel overwhelmed by medical bills, policies and coverage. "We review all medical charges, fees and payment schedules to check for accuracy," she said.
 "We ensure that our clients' health insurance dollars are being used as intended so they don't have to pay more than they absolutely have to.
" "We take pride in protecting our clients and their loved ones. They need someone on their side who will advocate for their rights and help them understand the complex world of healthcare insurance," she said.
 "With more than 20 years of experience in physician offices and hospitals, there are not many companies that can relate with their patients like we do.
" Metro said becoming a tenant in the Purdue Research Park of Northwest Indiana is one step toward meeting her goal to help the public in her community.
 "I was born and raised in the region, and there is nothing better than to give back," she said. "Officials from the Purdue Technology Center were welcoming and helpful, and their insight and encouragement have made starting My Patient Advocate easier.
" My Patient Advocate is a team of healthcare professionals with more than 20 years of experience working for and with physicians and hospitals in the greater Chicago metropolitan area and northwest Indiana.
 We have spent years helping patients obtain coverage for services, get claims paid, appeal denied claims, negotiate discounts, and access benefit information for services.
 We are a well-rounded organization that understands the need to cross over to the patient's side. We are here to help you. The Purdue Research Park
, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country. The parks are home to about 240 companies that employ about 4,200 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 Source: Terri Metro, My Patient Advocate, 219-779-4844, terri.metro@my-patient-advocate.com </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-research-park-vice-president-receives-career-achievement-award.html
<Content> Purdue Research Park vice president receives Career Achievement Award
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind., PHILADELPHIA – Greg Deason, vice president of Purdue Research Park, received the Career Achievement Award from the Association of University Research Parks during the organization's international conference in Philadelphia.
 The Career Achievement Award recognizes individuals who have made research and science parks a central focus of their careers, who have achieved success with one or more parks over a substantial period of time and who have received peer recognition for advancing the field of research and science parks.
 Deason said he is proud of the impact Purdue Research Park has had on the lives of people in Indiana. "This award is a recognition of all the work that's been accomplished by a team of professionals, together we transformed the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette and launched three other parks throughout Indiana," he said.
 "Today, the Purdue Research Park network is a major contributor to our state's economy, with about 4,500 jobs and an annual economic impact of $1.3 billion on our state.
" In July Deason began his new role as executive director of the Purdue Foundry. The Foundry is dedicated to helping Purdue faculty, staff and students created startups.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 240 companies that employ about 4,500 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 The Foundry is where faculty, staff and students can find fast and effective ways to move their ideas to the marketplace. It focuses Purdue's resources to accelerate and improve the advancement of Purdue ideas and innovations that are changing the world.
 Source: Andrew Gunter, 765-588-3341 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-researchers-awarded-1-million-w.m.-keck-foundation-grant.html
<Content> Purdue researchers awarded $1 million W.M. Keck Foundation grant
 Purdue professor Michael Manfra holds a gallium-arsenide wafer as he stands next to the high-mobility gallium-arsenide molecular beam epitaxy system, or MBE, at the Birck Nanotechnology Center.
 Manfra leads a team of Purdue researchers that create ultrapure semiconductor heterostructures to study electrons in correlated states.
 The W.M. Keck Foundation recently awarded the team a $1 million grant. (Purdue University photo/Andrew Hancock) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 — A team of Purdue University researchers has been awarded a $1 million W.M. Keck Foundation grant to create a material that forces electrons into rare states important to basic research and with potential applications for next generation quantum computing.
 The Keck Foundation award will help push the research forward at a faster pace, said Tim Sands, executive vice president for academic affairs and provost.
 "I am confident that the team will develop the technologies and materials refinements that will lead to a breakthrough in electron mobility, potentially opening the door to new physics, including experimental verification of predicted behavior as well as the first observations of new and unexpected behavior," said Sands, who is also the Basil S.
 Turner Professor of Engineering and former director of Birck Nanotechnology Center, where the team's work is housed. The lead researcher is Michael Manfra, the William F.
 and Patty J. Miller Associate Professor of Physics. He also is an associate professor of materials engineering and associate professor of electrical and computer engineering.
 Other team members are Gabor Csathy, associate professor of physics; David Johnson, associate professor of materials engineering; and Kevin Trumble, professor of materials engineering.
 The material, ultrapure gallium arsenide semiconductor heterostructures, captures electrons in quantum wells that allow them to zip along without bumping into impurities and scattering, Manfra said.
 In ultrapure quantum wells, the electrons only interact with each other, and researchers are able to push electrons within the material into much sought-after "correlated states.
" When electrons are in a correlated state, a change applied to one is reflected in the motion of all the others. If this behavior could be harnessed and controlled, it could be used to create a new way to store and process information.
 The correlated state is like having all of the electrons perform a choreographed dance together, Manfra said. "We need a perfectly clean and clear dance floor for the electrons because any debris makes them slip and fall or slide off into the tables," Manfra said.
 "The cleaner, or more pure, the dance floor, the easier it is for the electrons to dance and achieve these new states. We are trying to make the best electron dance floor possible and see what new dances they will perform.
" Cleaner starting materials and new growth methods are needed to make semiconductors that can achieve these new correlated states, he said.
 The Purdue team includes experts in material purification, semiconductor growth and low-temperature electron transport. "Support from the Keck Foundation allows us to put this team in place and pursue these exciting goals," he said.
 "Kevin, David and Gabor each bring complementary skills to the work." Manfra's team designed and built a high-mobility gallium-arsenide molecular beam epitaxy system, or MBE, to create the material.
 The team has achieved extremely high electron mobility values, which measure how easily an electron can move through a crystal and is used as a metric of the quality of the "dance floor" provided by the material.
 Based in Los Angeles, the W.M. Keck Foundation was established in 1954 by the late W.M. Keck, founder of Superior Oil Co. The foundation’s grant making is focused primarily on pioneering efforts in the areas of medical research, science and engineering and undergraduate education.
 More information is available at http://www.wmkeck.org</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-researchers-new-tool-for-the-organic-chemist-toolbox-licensed-to-sigma-aldrich.html
<Content> Purdue researcher's new 'tool for the organic chemist toolbox' licensed to Sigma-Aldrich
 Purdue professor David Colby holds a vial of a chemical reagent he created to incorporate flourine into organic compounds. The reagent is safer, easier and better for the environment than those previously available, and has been licensed to a subsidiary of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. and ST. LOUIS, Mo. – A Purdue University researcher's U.S.
 patent for a safer, easier and "greener" method to incorporate fluorine into organic compounds - a common step in materials processing, drug discovery and synthesis of agricultural treatments - has been licensed to a subsidiary of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, a St.
 Louis-based life science and high technology company. David A. Colby, a Purdue assistant professor of medicinal chemistry and organic chemistry, developed a chemical reagent that safely makes fluorine available during the creation of a new chemical compound.
 This reagent could provide drug manufacturers an improved method for using fluorine in the drug discovery process and enhance large-scale production of drugs for pharmaceutical manufacturers.
 Aldrich Chemical Co. LLC has licensed the technology and will make the product available for sale through the Sigma-Aldrich catalog and website
. Aldrich signed the license agreement with the Purdue Research Foundation and its Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization.
 "Fluorine-carbon bonds are incredibly strong and are the secret to the strength of materials like Teflon and agricultural treatments that withstand the elements, and they also help pharmaceuticals hold up well inside our bodies," Colby said.
 "Fluorine has greatly advanced these industries, and now we have solved a key problem associated with using a commonly available starting material, fluoroform gas, an environmental hazard that is difficult to use in the laboratory.
 What we've done is create a new tool for the chemist's toolbox." Fluoroform gas requires special handling and protection of the user and produces ozone-destroying fluorocarbons if released into the atmosphere.
 The reagent Colby developed is a stable solid that can be easily stored at room temperature, weighed and measured in the open air and requires no unusual protection measures.
 The reagent also has little waste and is made up of compounds that are safe for the environment. Once safely added to a solvent contained in the chemical processing equipment, the reagent releases fluoroform gas that is easily incorporated into the chemical process, he said.
 Pharmaceutical companies have long recognized the beneficial effects of fluorine atoms in drug molecules because of their ability to improve such things as drug delivery, selectivity and efficacy.
 About 20 percent of all drugs on the market contain fluorine, including three of the current top-10 best-selling drugs including Lipitor® and Prevacid®.
 "A chemist must have ways to manipulate properties in order to study the effectiveness of a drug," Colby said. A manuscript detailing Colby's invention of the reagent was recently published in the journal, 
Organic Letters. Sigma-Aldrich is a leading life science and high technology company whose biochemical, organic chemical products, kits and services are used in scientific research, including genomic and proteomic research, biotechnology, pharmaceutical development, the diagnosis of disease and as key components in pharmaceutical, diagnostics and high technology manufacturing.
 Sigma-Aldrich customers include more than 1.3 million scientists and technologists in life science companies, university and government institutions, hospitals and industry.
 The company operates in 38 countries and has nearly 9,000 employees whose objective is to provide excellent service worldwide. Sigma-Aldrich is committed to accelerating customer success through innovation and leadership in life science and high technology.
 For more information about Sigma-Aldrich, visit www.sigma-aldrich.com The Purdue Research Foundation is a private, nonprofit foundation created to advance the mission of Purdue University.
 Established in 1930, the foundation accepts gifts; administers trusts; funds scholarships and grants; and acquires property on behalf of Purdue.
 The foundation manages the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization, which operates one of the most comprehensive technology transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 PREVACID is a registered trademark of Takeda Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-researchers-seek-treatment-for-new-mers-coronavirus.html
<Content> Purdue researchers seek treatment for new MERS coronavirus
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A pair of Purdue University researchers who in the past created compounds to block the SARS virus are now tackling the new Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, or MERS-CoV.
 The team's successful work on SARS paved the way for them to swiftly work on MERS CoV, reducing parts of the process that would normally take years to a matter of months, said Andrew Mesecar, the Walther Professor of Cancer Structural Biology and a professor of biological sciences and chemistry.
 Mesecar and Arun Ghosh, the Ian P. Rothwell Distinguished Professor of Chemistry and Medicinal Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, are testing compounds that could lead to potential treatments for the new virus.
 "MERS-CoV and SARS are similar, yet distinctly different coronaviruses," Mesecar said. "Our understanding of the prime targets for treatment of the SARS virus and the molecular inhibitors we have designed against it give us a good head start in finding a potential treatment for MERS-CoV.
" Sixty-one people have been infected by the virus, leading to 34 deaths, according to the most recent information from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 The virus can spread from person to person and causes severe respiratory illness. The outbreak has been mostly confined to the Middle East, but cases have been identified in Britain, France and Italy, and the head of the World Health Organization called it "a threat to the entire world.
" "While MERS-CoV appears to be more virulent than SARS, molecular scaffolds and design concepts that we developed against SARS are very beneficial and timely," Ghosh said.
 "Using our expertise in structure-based design and drug development, our team has already synthesized a number of specific MERS-CoV inhibitors.
" Purdue students involved in the research are especially motivated to work on challenging targets that impact human health like MERS-CoV, Ghosh said.
 Graduate students Heather Osswald and Prasanth Nyalapatla in Ghosh's lab have been performing the synthesis of MERS-CoV inhibitors and graduate student Sakshi Tomar and undergraduate student Melanie Johnston in Mesecar's lab are testing the compounds against MERS-CoV.
 Related news release: Purdue researcher invents molecule that stops SARS: https://news.uns.purdue.edu/x/2008b/081111GhoshSARS.html
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-researchers-win-14.5-million-nsf-grant-to-take-nanohub.org-to-next-level.html
<Content> Purdue researchers win $14.5 million NSF grant to take nanoHUB.org to next level
 Nearly 250,000 users participate in nanoHUB, an online meeting place for simulation, research, collaboration, teaching, learning and publishing.
 The red dots indicate users of online lectures, seminars, courses and teaching materials, while yellow dots indicate simulation users.
 (Photo illustration by Office of the Vice President for Research) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University researchers have received a five-year $14.5 million 
National Science Foundation grant to expand its widely used nanoHUB.org online science and engineering gateway. The Purdue-led Cyber Platform, a part of the 
Network for Computational Nanotechnology (NCN), will assist researchers across the globe by developing a virtual society that shares simulation software, data and other innovative content to provide engineers and scientists with the fundamental knowledge required to advance nanoscience into nanotechnology.
 "Thousands of times a day the leading researchers 'come' to Purdue through the globally unique tool of nanoHUB," Purdue President Mitch Daniels said Tuesday (Feb.
 5) in announcing the grant. "The new NSF investment is an affirmation of the brilliance of nanoHUB's Purdue creators and of its worldwide scientific significance.
" Annually, nearly 250,000 users in 172 countries participate in nanoHUB, an online meeting place for simulation, research, collaboration, teaching, learning and publishing.
 The nanoHUB provides a library of 267 simulation tools, free from the limitations of running software locally, used in the scientific computing cloud by more than 12,000 people every year.
 The Internet-based initiative provides 3,000 resources from more than 1,000 authors for research and education in the areas of nanoelectronics and nanoelectromechanical systems and their application to nano-biosystems.
 The nanoHUB menu also includes courses, tutorials, seminars, discussions and facilities to foster nano-research collaboration, including the 
Birck Nanotechnology Center in Purdue's Discovery Park. Through Cyber Platform developments and community engagement efforts, the nanoHUB in its next phase is designed to:
 * Accelerate research by transforming nanoscience to nanotechnology through the integration of simulation with experimental data.
 "Our long-term vision for the Cyber Platform is to use the nanoHUB as an online nano society that researchers, practitioners, educators and students depend on daily," said Purdue electrical and computer engineering professor Gerhard Klimeck, principal investigator of the Purdue-led Cyber Platform.
 "At the same time, we are excited about how this tool has extended into professional practice as a computational resource for a multidisciplinary culture of innovation grounded in cloud services-enabled workflows.
" Joining Klimeck on the Cyber Platform team at Purdue are co-principal investigators Krishna Madhavan, Michael McLennan, Lynn Zentner and Michael Zentner.
 For the NSF abstract, go to http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1227110&HistoricalAwards=false The nanoHUB has become the first broadly successful, cloud-computing environment for research across multiple disciplines, with more than 960 citations in scientific literature and 8,000 secondary citations, with nearly one-third of those papers involving experimental data.
 It also has evolved well beyond online simulation for research. From New York to London and Moscow to Madrid, more than 14,000 students in 760 formal classes at 185 institutions have used nanoHUB simulations for classroom teaching, homework and projects.
 The nanoHUB also provides a library of 3,000 learning materials. "Most of these tools are adopted for formal education in six months, compared with the 3.8 years it takes for the release of new college textbook editions," Klimeck said.
 NCN founding director Mark Lundstrom, the Don and Carol Scifres Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Purdue, said a key part of the Cyber Platform project is to engage an ever-larger and more diverse cyber community that shares novel, high-quality nanoscale computation and simulation research and educational resources.
 "The reason we created the nanoHUB cyberinfrastructure 10 years ago was to connect those who are doing simulation with experimental collaborators," Lundstrom said.
 "Today, it's called cloud computing." Based in Discovery Park, Purdue's primary interdisciplinary research complex, the Cyber Platform team hopes to accelerate the transformation of nanoscience to nanotechnology through the integration of simulation with experimental data.
 Lundstrom said the project will focus on developing open-source software to stimulate data sharing and inspire and educate the next-generation workforce.
 A key goal is to create communities in the nano-related areas of manufacturing, informatics, and environmental health and safety.
 "Despite a decade of success in nanotechnology research and education, significant gaps remain because work is still performed by isolated individuals and small groups," Lundstrom said.
 "This fragmentation by specialty hinders tool and data sharing across knowledge domains." By partnering with professional societies and commercial publishers, Klimeck said nanoHUB is changing how researchers publish simulation results through novel interactive journals that reflect a user's workflow, link directly back to their data and open doors to more collaborators.
 This approach will drive new content to the nanoHUB, establishing an efficient, one-stop shopping site for high-powered, nano-related research simulations, he said.
 NCN also has developed processes for enabling researchers to rapidly deploy their research codes and innovative tutorials and classes on nanoHUB.
 "To date, these processes harvested research and educational results from more than 1,000 contributors worldwide," Klimeck said.
 "Expansion into new areas of nano research and education - including precollege education - represent a huge growth potential for nanoHUB that goes beyond simulation to embracing data management, search and exploration.
" With NSF funding, Purdue launched NCN in 2002 with a five-year, $10.5 million grant to advance nanoscience toward nanotechnology via online simulations on nanoHUB.org.
 The NSF funding was distributed among six partner universities to seed the infrastructure creation and develop the nanoHUB content.
 Today, NSF is funding Purdue for the operation and advancement of this national nanotechnology infrastructure. Two other independent NSF grants, each at a level of $3.5 million to Purdue and the University of Illinois, Urbana Champaign, will advance nanoelectronic and nano-bioengineering while using nanoHUB to engage a global community.
 The resulting NCN is now funded at a level of $21.9 million for five years. Mark Lundstrom, 765-494-3515, lundstro@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-researchers-working-on-missile-defense-software.html
<Content> Purdue researchers working on missile-defense software
 Daniel DeLaurentis, left, an associate professor in Purdue University's School of Aeronautics and Astronautics, and Saurabh Bagchi, a professor in Purdue's School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, are working with the U.S.
 Missile Defense Agency to help the United States foil enemy missile attacks. (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Purdue University researchers are peering into the future to help the United States foil enemy missile attacks.
 Working with the U.S. Missile Defense Agency, the research team is creating software that makes it possible to pose various "what-if" questions; scenarios that explore plausible future missile advances in adversarial nations and the defensive capability of the United States.
 "Our mission is to look into the future, to say, for example, what if we had some new missile technology, or what if a country X had the capability to launch X number of missiles at the United States?
 What would we have to do to shoot them down?" said Daniel DeLaurentis, an associate professor in Purdue's School of Aeronautics and Astronautics.
 The research focuses on how to defend against attacks called "raids" in which many missiles would be launched against the United States, said 
Saurabh Bagchi, a professor in Purdue's School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. "The system must be able to handle a raid environment, based, in part, on the assumption that our potential adversaries will expand their missile capabilities in the future," he said.
 "So we are developing a battle management system that is flexible enough to work for decades from now. The biggest challenge is trying to do decision making under conditions of uncertainty.
 There is uncertainty about what the enemy will be able to do in the future and what we will be able to do in the future." DeLaurentis is leading the project with Bagchi, working with Stephen D.
 Heister, Purdue's Raisbeck Engineering Distinguished Professor for Engineering and Technology Integration, Joseph Pekny, a professor of chemical engineering, two research scientists and about a dozen doctoral students.
 The project began in 2010 and is funded with a four-year, $4.8 million grant from the Missile Defense Agency, which is part of the U.S.
 Department of Defense. Scenarios included hypothetical attacks by other nations. The United States can launch interceptors from Fort Greely in Alaska and from Navy Aegis destroyers and cruisers equipped with the Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense weapon system.
 The nation's anti-missile system is designed to locate missiles, track them and launch intercepting missiles to shoot them down.
 "The earlier the intercept after enemy missiles are launched, the greater the probability of mission success," DeLaurentis said.
 "Otherwise, they fan out more and have greater opportunity to further complicate the engagement. Additionally, the closer they get to our friendly positions, the more you have to worry about additional factors like potentially dangerous debris.
" The project is inherently interdisciplinary because it requires expertise in aerospace and computer engineering. "You need aerospace for things dealing with missiles and the operation of satellites, sensors and radars," Bagchi said.
 "You need computer science and computer engineering to run algorithms that will decide which weapons to fire and at which missiles and also to fend off simultaneous cyber-attacks against our command and control computers.
" Specialized software designed for "enhanced command and control" includes algorithms for aerospace modeling of the flight characteristics of enemy missiles and interceptors.
 The complex software needs to function within a global network of many computers and sensors including radar and satellite surveillance systems.
 A key challenge is to create algorithms that are able to function in such distributed environments. The researchers use a high-performance computer cluster provided by Information Technology at Purdue, or ITaP.
 The project uses intensive long-running simulations, which make it possible to assess the performance of the U.S. missile defense system using as few field tests as possible.
 "This is important for several reasons," DeLaurentis said. "Field tests are expensive, so you want to use them sparingly. At the same time the simulations allow us to run many more experiments than would otherwise be possible with field tests alone, and this yields a lot of data to improve the system.
" Saurabh Bagchi, 765-494-3362, sbagchi@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-retirees-honor-department-of-biochemistry.html
<Content> Purdue retirees honor Department of Biochemistry
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Purdue University's Department of Biochemistry has won the 2013 Arthur G. Hansen Recognition Award for its relationship with its retirees.
 The award, sponsored by the Purdue University Retirees Association and the Office of the President, will be presented June 27 to Jay Akridge, dean of the College of Agriculture, and Clint Chapple, distinguished professor and department head, at the university's annual retirement luncheon.
 The Department of Biochemistry will receive a trophy and is listed on a plaque in the corridor of the Purdue Memorial Union. The award also includes $2,500, funded by TIAA-CREF, to be used to help strengthen the department's relationship with its retirees.
 The award is named for Arthur Hansen, Purdue's eighth president, who established the retirees' association in 1976. The award is given annually to a Purdue school, department, office or division that cultivates and maintains meaningful relationships with its retirees.
 Biochemistry professor emeriti Karl Brandt and Mark Hermodson nominated the biochemistry department for the honor for fostering retirees' involvement in the following ways:
 * Making every effort to provide office and laboratory space for retired faculty to continue research alone or in collaboration with other faculty.
 * Maintaining contact with retired faculty, who routinely receive all department emails and are kept aware of student and faculty achievements and affairs, as well as information on upcoming events and seminars.
 * Welcoming retirees to departmental activities, such as seminars, doctoral thesis defenses, welcoming new students and meeting parents.
 * Invitations for retirees to deliver a lecture or series in courses for which they have expertise. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-retirement-and-savings-plan-changed-for-new-non-exempt-hires.html
<Content> Purdue retirement and savings plan changed for new non-exempt hires
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue's Board of Trustees on Friday (May 10) approved placing future non-exempt employees in a defined contribution retirement and savings plan, providing a competitive retirement savings program while reducing costs for the university.
 New non-exempt employees, which are essentially those on hourly pay, hired on or after Sept. 9 will be enrolled in the new Retirement and Savings Plan.
 According to estimates, Purdue could reduce costs by more than $2 million annually by the plan's fourth year. The move is designed to remain competitive, to enact best practices such as using a defined contribution plan to reduce expenses by providing for matching employer contributions that encourage employee savings, and to leverage Purdue's existing retirement plan infrastructure with Fidelity, said Luis E.
 Lewin, vice president for human resources. Current non-exempt employees will remain in the state's defined benefit plan through PERF, the Public Employees' Retirement Fund.
 For employees in the new plan, Purdue will make an employer base contribution of 4 percent of earnings, and the employee will be automatically enrolled in a 403(b) voluntary contribution plan at a rate of 5 percent.
 Purdue will match that voluntary contribution up to an additional 4 percent. The plan will apply to benefits-eligible clerical, service, and operations and technical employees hired or rehired on or after Sept.
 9. Purdue presidents previously participated in an independent retirement plan structured by the university. Trustees, at the request of President Mitch Daniels, have eliminated that plan and changed the policy to permit the president to participate in the standard university plan.
 Source: Luis E. Lewin, 765-494-7395, luislewin@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-science-on-tap-features-talk-on-key-role-of-animal-modeling-in-biomedical,-cardiovascular-research.html
<Content> Purdue Science on Tap features talk on key role of animal modeling in biomedical, cardiovascular research
 Purdue Science on Tap features talk on key role of animal modeling in biomedical, cardiovascular research WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University biomedical engineering professor Craig Goergen will headline the next Science on Tap with a talk on the critical role that animal disease models are playing in determining the underlying causes of heart attacks, aneurysms and other cardiovascular diseases.
 The Purdue Science on Tap talk, titled Of Mice and Men and Heart Disease, is at 6 p.m. Nov. 14 in the upstairs of the Lafayette Brewing Company, 622 Main St.
, Lafayette. The informal lecture, which is free and open to those 21 and older, is sponsored by the School of Biomedical Engineering, the College of Engineering and Discovery Park.
 "Animal models have become an essential tool in biomedical research," said Goergen, who joined the faculty in Purdue's Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering
 in December 2012. "While there are many differences between small rodents and humans, mouse and rat models of cardiovascular disease are incredibly useful when studying the underlying pathways associated with heart attacks, atherosclerosis, aneurysms and other cardiovascular diseases.
 And this is especially important today because of the increasing obesity rates that have contributed to making cardiovascular disease the No.
 1 killer in the United States." In his lab, Goergen said his team of researchers at Purdue in the College of Engineering, along with collaborators in the 
College of Veterinary Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine and others, are focused on advancing the field of imaging to help diagnose, treat or prevent cardiovascular disease, ultimately providing patients with longer and more fulfilling lives.
 For Science on Tap, Goergen will discuss cardiac and vascular scaling differences across mammals, introduce several commonly used animal models of cardiovascular disease and highlight recent work in the field of in-vivo imaging.
 "Ultimately, this area of research hopes to increase our understanding of cardiac and vascular disease progression, evaluate the efficacy of therapeutics, and determine medical device compatibility before translation to the clinic," he said.
 Understanding heart and vascular disease initiation and progression is necessary to develop the next generation of therapeutics and devices, Goergen said.
 For example, non-invasive imaging helps detect and monitor disease progression, aiding in the development of technology. "With continued efforts, we hope to eventually make a positive impact on the clinical care of patients," he said.
 Goergen holds a bachelor's degree in biomedical engineering from Washington University in St. Louis and master's and doctoral degrees in bioengineering from Stanford University.
 His postdoctoral training in molecular optical imaging at Harvard Medical School focused on cardiac disease and left ventricular remodeling.
 Science on Tap, now led by graduate students David Welkie, Anju Karki and Nelda Vazquez, provides Purdue faculty and collaborating researchers the opportunity to share research activities in an informal setting with presentations that are designed to appeal to a more general audience.
 Attendance at the monthly event has averaged 80 during the program's first four years. Anju Karki, 765-494-0455, akarki@purdue.edu 
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-software-boosts-graduation-rate-21-percent-by-data-mining-academic-behviors.html
<Content> Purdue software boosts graduation rate 21 percent
 Graduation rates at Purdue University are 21 percent higher when students take courses that make use of a data mining and analysis software program called Signals.
 The software, which was developed at Purdue, examines online academic behaviors and warns both the students and the instructors when individuals are at risk of performing poorly in the class.
 The instructor's view shows the breakdown of students by high, medium, or low risk. (Purdue University image) WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 – A data-mining and analysis software program called Signals developed by Purdue University has increased six-year graduation rates by 21.48 percent, according to a recent review of data from the 2007 cohort of students.
 The increased graduation rates were for students who were in two or more Signals-enabled classes compared to students who had not taken any Signals-enabled courses.
 Students who had taken just one Signals-enabled course graduated 20.87 percent higher than those who had taken none. Five-year graduation data from the 2008 cohort showed that students who had taken two or more Signals-enabled courses graduated from Purdue at a rate that was 24.36 percent higher than students who did not take a Signals-enabled course.
 The Signals software looks at students' online academic behaviors, such as whether they opened a reading assignment or completed a set of math exercises.
 It combines this information with demographic information about the student, such as his or her standardized test scores, high school GPA, and current grades.
 In all the system uses more than 20 reference datapoints. Signals then displays a simple and intuitive red, yellow or green signal on the student's course website to let them know how they are doing in that course.
 In addition to the visual warning, students also receive messages prepared by the instructors. The messages may tell students in the green to keep up the good work, for example, or remind those with a yellow signal that evening tutoring sessions are available, or ask a student who has recently changed from having a yellow signal to one that is red to make an appointment to visit the instructor's office.
 Purdue recently released a web application called PassNote that helps instructors write these messages to students using text that research has shown are most effective.
 Gerry McCartney, Purdue University's CIO, vice president for information technology and Olga Oesterle England Professor of Technology, says one strength of Signals is that it gives students feedback on how they are doing soon after they arrive on campus.
 "In some courses students might not receive an actual grade until they take their midterm exam halfway through the semester," McCartney says.
 "By that time they have already set most of their study behaviors. Depending on the course assignments, Signals can begin offering feedback as early as the second week of classes so students have plenty of time to make changes.
" Signals launched as a pilot program in 2007 and rolled out to general campus use in 2008. It has been released as a commercial product by Ellucian called CourseSignals.
 Each instructor or faculty member can decide whether to incorporate the Signals system into their course. Currently more than 125 courses (many of which have multiple sessions) have incorporated Signals at Purdue.
 Matt Pistilli, research scientist in the Teaching and Learning area of Information Technology at Purdue, says Signals provides benefits to instructors, too.
 "The application of analytics can transform how a student learns, but it can also transform how an instructor teaches," Pistilli says.
 "Faculty who teach may see an unusually high number of students move to the red warning and realize students weren't getting a concept or successfully completing assignments.
 They can quickly address that in the course and make changes for when they teach the course the next year. Ultimately, the students get better over time, but so do the courses.
" During the six years Purdue has been using the Signals system, the primary surprise to the developers has been that taking more than one Signals-enabled course significantly increases both retention and graduation for students.
 "For some reason, two courses is the magic number. Taking just one course with Course Signals is beneficial for students, but we've seen significant improvement when students are enrolled in at least two courses using the system," Pistilli says.
 "We need to continue to do more research on why this is significant," Pistilli continues. "We think it is because if a student gets feedback from two different instructors, they can make better links between their performance and their behaviors.
 For example, a student may be taking a course in biology and and another in communications, which are very different courses, but if they get the same feedback in both courses about study habits and needing to spend more time on task - and they hear suggestions on how to improve from two different professors - they appear to make the change.
 What's notable is that this improvement stays with them in their other courses and for the rest of their academic careers." Staff at Purdue continue to incorporate "Big Data" techniques in order to boost student success.
 Work has begun on the next generation of course analytics systems, which will provide more targeted information. For example, Signals looks at a student's mathematics aptitude, but that skill may be more significant in a chemistry class than in a writing course.
 "In the next generation system we want to have multiple algorithms for different departments and eventually for each course at Purdue," Pistilli says.
 "Eventually by using artificial intelligence we hope to develop a custom algorithm for each student." The next generation academic analytics system at Purdue will also pull in data from a separate project currently in development at Purdue called "Students Like Me.
" This data analytics program, which is being developed with EMC Corp.'s Pivotal, will help students achieve academic goals. Students Like Me will then look at similar students who were successful and recommend specific courses, student organizations, or other activities for the student to consider.
 "Signals was just the beginning of how were are planning to use data mining and analytics to improve student success," McCartney says.
 "We have seen what a great benefit Signals is already, but we know there is much more we can do to provide our students information that will make our students as successful as they can be.
" Note to Journalists: To receive a copy of the data summary please contact Steve Tally at 765-494-9809, or at tally@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-software-toolkit-provides-visual-analytics-to-aid-law-enforcement,-first-responders.html
<Content> Purdue software toolkit provides visual analytics to aid law enforcement, first-responders
 John Goetz, Purdue University police patrol sergeant, uses the Visual Analytics Law Enforcement Toolkit, or VALET, to track traffic and civil incident data.
 VALET is being developed by Purdue's Visual Analytics for Command, Control and Interoperability Environments, which is a U.S. Homeland Security Center of Excellence.
 (Photo provided by Purdue Research Foundation) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University researchers have developed a new tool for law enforcement officers and disaster assistance first-responders to reduce crime and assist people.
 The tool is called the Visual Analytics Law Enforcement Toolkit, or VALET (pdf). Developed at Purdue's Homeland Security Center of Excellence, the toolkit software provides real-time data so officers can analyze high-volume criminal, traffic and civil incident data as well as related emergency management and disaster preparedness events so they can be more strategic in how they allocate resources in their communities.
 "One of my sayings is, 'We need to work smarter, not harder,' and the VALET toolkit allows us to pull data so we are in a better position to put officers in the right place at the right time when a situation arises," said John K.
 Cox, Purdue University chief of police. "Providing this type of situational awareness gives us the higher level of assessment so we can better cover high-crime areas or give officers context of what is happening so they know what they are walking into when on patrol or responding to a call.
" The Visual Analytics Law Enforcement Toolkit, or VALET, is a software toolkit that provides real-time data so law enforcement officers can analyze high-volume criminal, traffic and civil incident data.
 The technology also can be used by first responders of emergency management and preparedness in times of disaster so they can be more strategic in how they allocate resources in their communities.
 (Screen shot provided by Purdue Research Foundation) Download Photo According to a statistical analysis based on historical data, the software program includes temporal prediction algorithms to forecast future criminal, traffic and civil incident levels within a 95 percent confidence interval, meaning the estimates of the collected data could be reliably repeated and used to predict future behaviors or actions.
 The VALET software can be used on most computers, and its companion software, called iVALET, has been designed specifically for the iPhone and iPad.
 Law enforcement agencies can receive trial versions of the software packages through Purdue's Visual Analytics for Command, Control and Interoperability Environments, or 
VACCINE. "Predictive and proactive analytics that creates a picture of what is happening at any given time and what could happen in an hour or a day or a week is a tremendous help for law enforcement and disaster relief officials," said David Ebert, director of Purdue's Visual Analytics for Command, Control and Interoperability Environments, which is a U.S.
 Homeland Security Center of Excellence. The technology enables law enforcement agencies to interactively visualize and analyze their datasets in linked geospatial or mapping and temporal views of time graphs, calendars and clock views.
 "We are doing more than providing law enforcement officers with specific data covering their areas, because we've developed a portal for potential other issues such as prominent calendar dates, zoning tracts and even weather reports to help officers in their daily routines to protect the public," said Abish Malik, a graduate research assistant in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering.
 Collaborators in the development of VALET include the Purdue University and West Lafayette police departments, Tippecanoe County Sheriff's Office and the Ohio State Highway Patrol.
 The U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Command, Control and Interoperability Center of Excellence at Purdue University provided funding for the project.
 Purdue University's other patented technologies include new cancer treatments, alternative fuels, biomedical devices, agriculture innovations and others that are available for licensing through the Office of Technology Commercialization.
 For more information, call 765-588-3475, email otcip@prf.org or visit otc-prf.org/otc. Abish Malik, amalik@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-specialist-warns-of-disease-deadly-to-impatiens--.html
<Content> Purdue specialist warns of disease deadly to impatiens 
 Some impatiens plants in this garden lost their leaves to downy mildew. (Purdue Department of Botany and Plant Pathology photo/Janna Beckerman) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Home gardeners making out their shopping list of annuals to plant should beware of a disease that is inflicting the always-popular impatiens, a Purdue Extension plant disease specialist says.
 Janna Beckerman advises gardeners to evaluate the history of their gardens and determine if downy mildew - a disease well-established in the Midwest - was in their yard or in neighboring yards last year before planting any impatiens this year.
 "Few plants provide the flowering impact in the shade like impatiens, but gardeners with a history of problems with the disease should consider other plants," she said.
 "And we need to recognize that this isn't the end of gardening but a reminder to expand your gardening palette." "Impatiens have become a default option for too many of us," she said.
 "A healthy landscape and a healthy ecosystem require diversity." The underside of an impatiens leaf shows downy mildew. (Purdue Department of Botany and Plant Pathology photo/Janna Beckerman) 
Download Photo Alternative annuals that do not get downy mildew include New Guinea impatiens, begonia, caladiums, cyclamen, fuchsia, lobelia, perilla, torenia and viola/pansies.
 Coleus is another commonly used part-shade annual, but it has its own problems with a different species of downy mildew, Beckerman said.
 For this reason, coleus is not recommended in gardens with a history of coleus that lost their leaves. Early symptoms of impatiens downy mildew are difficult to detect: Leaves may be slightly yellow (chlorotic) with stippling and may mimic nutritional deficiency or spider mite damage.
 Leaves will droop. Under cool, wet, humid conditions, white-colored sporulation may be visible on the undersides of the leaves. Sporulation, however, might not always be visible, especially if conditions are warm and dry.
 As the disease progresses, plants appear stunted and foliage drops, resulting in green, leafless stems. Downy mildew - although sounding like a fungal disease is actually caused by a water mold - can develop in the home landscape in three ways: 
 * It was brought in this year on infected plants even though they showed no symptoms of the disease. Moisture, key to the disease, is necessary for the pathogen to produce spores and cause new infections.
 Places where the leaves stay wet for extended periods, such as with plants grown tightly together, in heavily shaded locations or where watered overhead, create conditions that can drive the disease.
 Beckerman said the best strategy for managing a garden is to remove and destroy all infected impatiens to minimize the amount of overwintering inoculum, called oospores, which can potentially start a new epidemic next year if impatiens are replanted in the area.
 Gardening still can be fun and rewarding even without impatiens, said Beckerman, who had this final piece of advice for gardeners:
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-student-fundraising-center-has-new-name.html
<Content> Purdue student fundraising center has new name
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The Purdue University student-run call center has changed its name to Rally Line. "The goal of the call center has always been to rally support for Purdue," said Jeannie Wade, Rally Line director.
 "We're proud to have a name that matches our mission and emphasizes a deep appreciation for the university." Students have been calling alumni since 1988.
 Rally Line employs 130 students each semester who make contact with more than 67,000 alumni, raising more than $2 million annually in support of scholarships, fellowships, professorships, research, renovations, programs and other university initiatives.
 "The opportunities I've had at Purdue are because of donors," said Brittany Crawmer, a Rally Line shift manager and senior in public relations.
 "I look forward to interacting with alumni, parents of students, friends of Purdue, and faculty. These individuals are the heart of the university, and it's a chance to thank them for my Purdue experience.
" Source: Jeannie Wade, jwade@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-student-supercomputing-team-headed-for-international-competition-in-germany.html
<Content> Purdue student supercomputing team headed for international competition in Germany
 Purdue's team for the student supercomputing competition at the ISC international supercomputing conference in Germany includes, from left Tyler Reid, Ethan Madden, Nick Molo, Kurt Kroeger, Spencer Julian, Trevor Johnson and staff advisers Stephen Harrell and Andy Howard.
 (ITaP photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University aerospace engineering major Trevor Johnson wants a career designing aircraft, and that requires knowing how to use a supercomputer to project the effects of a design on key performance factors such as the way air flows over an aircraft's body and wings.
 The senior from Orion, Ill., has used high-performance computing in his classwork at Purdue, but he's getting a different perspective on it this summer - as a member of a student supercomputing team preparing for an international competition in Germany starting June 16.
 "The team has advanced my goals by allowing me a greater insight into how these tasks run and how to improve the job setup and software install,” Johnson says.
 "It is a great learning opportunity that I think will help me work more effectively on computationally intensive tasks in the future.
” This is the first time a Purdue team is in the student competition at the ISC supercomputing conference in Europe, one of the supercomputing industry's two major annual gatherings.
 Information Technology at Purdue (ITaP), HP, Intel and Matrix Integration are sponsoring Purdue's team. The Purdue team is one of nine in the competition, which takes place in Leipzig, Germany.
 The University of Colorado is the only other team from the United States. The other teams are from institutions in China and Germany - both countries with two teams - Costa Rica, Scotland and South Africa.
 The Purdue team includes Johnson; Spencer Julian, a senior in computer engineering from Anderson, Ind.; Kurt Kroeger, a sophomore in computer science from Nashville, Tenn.; Ethan Madden, a junior in computer and information technology from Newburgh, Ind.; Nick Molo, a junior in computer engineering from Joliet, Ill.; and Tyler Reid, a senior in computer science from Zionsville, Ind.
 ITaP staff members Stephen Harrell and Andy Howard advise the team, and professor Michael Baldwin, a Purdue atmospheric scientist, is faculty adviser.
 The students, all of whom must be undergraduates, assemble their own mini-supercomputer and configure it to run a set battery of scientific software to process real science data provided by the competition organizers.
 The teams don't see the data until the competition kicks off, and the goal is to crunch as much of it as possible between Monday evening and Wednesday afternoon.
 The known applications include software for subatomic physics, interactions among biochemical molecules and weather prediction. But the international competition also features two "secret” applications that the teams will be assigned upon arriving in Germany.
 "This will test our abilities to quickly compile new applications as well as efficiently run them,” says Madden, who also was on the Purdue team for the U.S.
 student supercomputing competition in November. "I think that will make the international competition significantly more challenging.
” Purdue's student supercomputer is made up of new-generation HP and Intel hardware, so new that the team didn't have it until recently.
 So the students could start working with the known software titles Intel helped arrange time on Stampede at the Texas Advanced Computing Center in Austin, Texas, one of the largest supercomputers for open science research in the world and one of the newest
 Funded by the National Science Foundation for use by researchers nationwide, Stampede uses state-of-the-art hardware similar to Purdue's student machine.
 The results the Purdue team has been able to get from the Texas supercomputer could bode well for the team's chances in Germany.
 "Stampede is a really good analog to what our cluster will be, and we've liked what we have seen,” says Reid, who was on the last two Purdue teams for the U.S.
 student supercomputing competition. The next supercomputer for use by Purdue researchers, which ITaP is building this summer, will include advanced hardware similar to Stampede and the student machine.
 Writer: Greg Kline, science and technology writer, Information Technology at Purdue, 765-494-8167 (office), 765-426-8545 (cell), 
gkline@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-student-union-board-to-salute-veterans.html
<Content> Purdue Student Union Board to salute veterans
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University will honor veterans in a tribute at 11 a.m. on Monday (Nov. 11). The Purdue Student Union Board
 will present its Veterans Day Tribute in the Union Great Hall. The tribute will include "Presentation of the Colors" by the Tri-service Color Guard, the "Pledge of Allegiance," the national anthem and songs by the Purduettes, two speeches by local veterans, a table of remembrance, a moment of silence, and three memorial volleys to end the event.
 Two chances to honor veterans and soldiers will be available in the Purdue Memorial Union, East Main Lounge. These displays will include photographs from local veterans and Purdue and "Our Heroes Wall," where community members and students can commemorate a family member or friend who has served or is serving by creating a small ornament.
 * Dustin Weisner - Sergeant, United States Marine Corps; student, aeronautical engineering technology Sources: Whitney Ramer, graduate adviser for Purdue Student Union Board, 765-494-8981 
psubgs2@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-students,-organizations-earn-awards.html
<Content> Purdue students, organizations earn awards
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The annual Student Activities and Organization awards were presented Wednesday (April 10) in the Purdue Memorial Union North Ballroom.
 More than 100 nominations were received for the awards, which are given to outstanding students, student organizations and organization advisers.
 The Emerging Leader Award is given to those who have demonstrated knowledge of, and interest in, campus activities and organizations.
 The recipients are expected to display enthusiasm, motivation, communication and organizational skills. This year's winners were Cory Back, Seokhun Bang, Rachel Bibler, Zachary Brantly, Tori Clift, Jani Dominguez, Amanda Green, Jorge Guerrero, Ashlee Janczak, RuQin Liu, Jeremy Patterson, Jake Ramsey, Jennifer Sacksteder, Hannah Scott, Kay Starzynski, Meher Taleyarkhan, Matt Tellas, Taylor Webb, Sam Walburn and Preston Zhang.
 The Outstanding Adviser of the Year is awarded to the student organization adviser who serves as a role model to students and has a strong belief in the organization they represent.
 Nominees show a willingness to commit sufficient time to the organization and promote students' personal growth by involving them in the organization's decision-making process.
 The winners for this year's award were Antonia Munguia and Robert Proctor. Other nominees were Monica Allain, Saurabh Bagchi, Heather Beasley, Strother Brann, Beth Holloway, Chad Johnson, Margie Jones, Galen King, Benjamin R.
 Lawton, Seokcheon Lee, Lauren Logan, Annie Murray, Kelly Pistilli, Renee Roames and Pankaj Sharma. The Helen B. Schleman Scholarship
 is awarded to students who have taken a nontraditional path to higher education. This year's recipients were Jeffrey Evans, Lynda Glover, Byron Kruger, Lou Underwood, Terry McNeil, Shawn Putman, Devon Armstrong, Ebony Barrett-Kennedy, Megan Farley, Dillon Mills, Sandra Service, Timothy Spano, Hamid Zamenian and Mariam Addeeb.
 The Linda Hurd Ewing Memorial Scholarship is dedicated to a student who best exemplifies the characteristics and qualities of scholarship, leadership, integrity and the ability to communicate to all ages.
 This year's recipients were Mariam Addeeb and Cassie Michele Cox. The Class of 1937 endowed a scholarship to reward students who show leadership and leadership potential.
 The 2013 recipients were Milad Alucozai, Casey Oliver, Alissa DeJongh, Andrew Battiato, Calvin Pham, Michael Mattern, Shannon Morton, Rachel Svetanoff, Mary Buente, Ronit Patnaik, Anne Marie Thieling, Nicholas King, Rachel Borsa, Brooke Sacksteder, Emily Pearce, Cassie Cox, Caleb Shoup, Anne Dooley, Anne Rodino and Brittany Vacchinao.
 The Peggy Sullivan Achievement Award honors and celebrates the accomplishments and contributions of Peggy Sullivan, Span Plan's third director.
 She provided 30 years of dedicated service to traditional, as well as nontraditional students, at Purdue University from 1962-2002.
 This year's recipients were Mariam Addeeb, Jeffrey Evans, Byron Kruger, Jun Zhang, Melissa Gokmogol and Diana Moreno Sarmiento. 
The Office of the Dean of Students Nontraditional Student Scholarship is awarded to full- or part-time, beginning or continuing adult nontraditional students who have a cumulative grade index of 2.0 or above, clear academic and career goals, and evidence of good character and persistence.
 Recipients were Jeffrey Evans, Byron Kruger, Melissa Gokmogol, Timothy Spano, Hla Thaung, Mariam Addeeb, David Long, Nikeytha Ramsey, Ebony Barrett-Kennedy, Vijitha Obeyeserkera, Dillon Mills and Megan Farley.
 One Purdue is awarded to a Boilermaker who has shown pride in Purdue and has actively sought to create change on campus. The 2013 recipient is Mike Asem.
 The Charles O. McGaughey Leadership Awards were established by McGaughey, a 1939 Purdue graduate, to honor undergraduate students who show leadership abilities and appreciation for basic American values.
 The recipients, who each will receive a $3,375 scholarship, were Milad Alucozai, Nick King, Victoria Loong, Katie McCalley, Scott Oliver, Bradley Pierson, Muhammad Soofi, Arianna Sweis, Kenneth Tan and Jessica Wedow.
 The Cecelia Zissi Graduate Student Grant honors the memory of the second Span Plan director who served from 1970-1987. Recipients were Lisa Beringer, Patricia Maule, Omobola Thomas, Cynthia Davies, Natalie Byler, Sarah Lewis, Jiyoung Chae, Geoffrey Kanani and Michael Loeffelman.
 The Co-Sponsorship of the Year Award is presented to organizations that have provided the most outstanding co-sponsorship program or program series for the betterment of the campus, students and Purdue.
 Eight events were nominated for this award. Purdue Student Government, Purdue Student Union Board and Residence Halls Association won for their collaboration on the "Purdue 360.
" The Outstanding Program Award is presented to the student organization that has implemented the most outstanding campus program during the academic year.
 The 2013 award was presented to Purdue University Chinese Students and Scholars for organizing its Chinese New Year Show. The Community Engagement & Involvement Award
 is presented to the student organization that provides outstanding service to other people or a place. The event can be a large, one-time activity or a series of smaller projects that meet community needs.
 This year's recipients were Alpha Phi Omega and Students for a Better Life. The Boilermaker Pride Award honors a student organization for outstanding participation in a tournament competition.
 The organization must display outstanding sportsmanship, compete against a Big Ten opponent and have active participation by all members in most competitions.
 This year's recipient was the Society of Women Engineers. The Excellence Award is a "lifetime achievement award" for student organizations that demonstrate outstanding continuous programs, leadership and service.
 This year's recipient was the Purdue Reamer Club. The Office of the Dean of Students-Student Ambassador Program welcomes new Boilermaker 
families to campus and spreads the word about services available to students through the Office of the Dean of Students. The seven outstanding ambassadors for 2013 were Michelle Cox, Jordan Edwards, Amanda Gee, Marcus Glick, Marcel Kuttab, Aiman Nawari and Alex Zawodni.
 The Fall Harvest Food Drive Award this year went to the Engineering Student Council (442 pounds). Nominations for these awards are taken throughout the course of the year and are reviewed by a committee of students and faculty.
 Award winners receive plaques, pins or certificates for their organization and have their name inscribed on perpetual plaques on campus.
 Martia Brawner King, assistant dean of students, 765-494-1232, mbrawner@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-students-invention-could-improve-workplace-safety.html
<Content> Purdue student's invention could improve workplace safety
 Eric J. Ward, a master's degree candidate in Purdue's School of Health Sciences, wears a prototype of his industrial hygienist vest that holds equipment in a pocket on the back rather than clipped to the belt.
 Ward's vest, which will be tested in Indiana and Ohio, can be licensed through the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization.
 (Purdue Research Foundation photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Industrial and government health and safety inspectors who regularly check work sites for levels of physical, chemical and biological agents could find their own work environments safer through an innovation developed by a Purdue University graduate student.
 Health and safety inspectors are found in all industrial sectors including construction, manufacturing and mining, as well as the government and military.
 Inspectors check how levels of these physical, chemical and biological agents in the workplace compare to standards set by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists.
 Eric J. Ward, a master's degree candidate in the Purdue School of Health Sciences from Plymouth, Ind., developed vest prototypes that could help health and safety inspectors carry their testing equipment more easily and improve ease of using it on the job.
 To collect samples from the workplace, air sampling pumps and noise dosimeters are clipped or secured with duct tape onto a worker's belt during the entire workday.
 Ward said there are several drawbacks to this method of attaching the equipment. "Inconsistent placement of equipment could lead to different results for different workers, and tubing or wires could be caught in machinery if the duct tape or clip that secures them comes loose," he said.
 "The weight of the equipment pulls on the belt, which can be physically uncomfortable." Ward has self-funded the development of three vest prototypes he made after returning from a 2012 summer internship.
 Workers can put on the vests by themselves, Velcro straps hold the equipment's wires or tubing in place, and counterweights in front ensure the equipment located on the back doesn't pull the vest.
 "People in industrial, government and military settings work as hard as they can, and I have been told that traditional industrial hygiene sampling is made even harder because the equipment is heavy and awkward to carry," he said.
 "Since the vest keeps equipment and its wires or tubing in a consistent place, hygienists can better measure the levels of physical, chemical and biological agents in the workplace, which means they can better detect possible problems and effectively control them.
" Ward has created large and extra-large prototypes, one of which can hold up to six different sampling devices. They have been tested by industrial hygiene students at Purdue, and additional tests are being or will be conducted by companies and government agencies in Indiana and Ohio.
 Ward also will make a poster presentation about his vests in Montreal at the AIHce 2013 conference for occupational and environmental health and safety professionals.
 Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization has filed two provisional patents for Ward's vest for industrial hygienists. For more information about developing and commercializing this invention, contact the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization at 765-588-3470, 
otcpatent@prf.org. The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-students-to-build-habitat-for-humanity-house.html
<Content> Purdue students to build Habitat for Humanity house
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The Purdue University Habitat for Humanity chapter on Saturday (Nov. 9) will raise the walls for a house it is building in Lafayette.
 The Purdue student-run organization works with Habitat for Humanity affiliates in Lafayette, Crawfordsville and Lebanon. The students raise funds and work on various projects in the three communities.
 "Our organization works to build, fundraise, advocate and educate for affordable housing on campus and in the surrounding area," said Allison Tyson, vice president of development for the chapter.
 "PUHFH was established 24 years ago, and since then has become one of the largest organizations on campus with nearly 200 registered members each year.
" The student chapter funds the house, being built at 1204 Southlea Drive. Shawn Deignan, marketing and communications coordinator for Habitat for Humanity of Lafayette, said sponsors of a home typically contribute $55,000.
 Habitat for Humanity, an international organization, partners with families and individuals to provide affordable home ownership.
 Those purchasing a Habitat for Humanity house contribute sweat equity by working with the organization on other projects. Costs are kept down because of the donation of time, money and materials.
 The home is sold to the family with a long-term, no-interest mortgage. The house being built by the Purdue chapter will go to Temple and Brooke Cosby and their two young children.
 Deignan said a typical house for a family of four will have three bedrooms, one-and-a-half bathrooms and a one-car garage. The Cosbys are putting in 500 hours of sweat equity.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-study-buses-fueled-by-natural-gas-a-better-option-now.html
<Content> Purdue study: Buses fueled by natural gas a better option now
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The local bus system could reduce its costs and emit significantly fewer pollutants by converting its fleet to one powered by natural gas, a cleaner fuel now in greater supply and more affordable, Purdue University energy economist Wally Tyner reports in a study.
 While the study was specific to the Greater Lafayette Public Transportation Corp., also known as CityBus, the approach of fueling buses with compressed natural gas, or CNG, could apply to similar municipal bus systems nationwide, said Tyner, an economist in the 
Department of Agricultural Economics. "Because of the lower fuel price and pollution reduction, the CNG bus is considered to have good potential as an alternative vehicle used in the public fleet in the United States," Tyner writes in the report "Evaluation of the Economics of Conversion to Compressed Natural Gas for a Municipal Bus Fleet.
" CityBus serves the adjacent cities of West Lafayette - home to Purdue University - and Lafayette. It has 72 buses and about 30,000 riders daily.
 The objective of the study was to help CityBus find the most effective way to reduce operating costs and make the fleet "greener.
" Tyner, graduate student Lin Yang and postdoctoral researcher Kemal Sarica performed economic and environmental analyses of the transit system using scenarios of buses fueled by compressed natural gas, diesel and a hybrid of diesel and electricity.
 CityBus already runs some diesel-electric buses, which have a higher fuel economy than a standard diesel bus but considerably higher capital expense in the form of higher bus costs.
 So it is considering natural gas among its options. Most buses in the United States use diesel fuel. The report concludes that buses fueled by natural gas would be the lowest-cost option for CityBus in a 15-year project that examined expenses of buying buses, maintaining them and keeping them fueled.
 The diesel-electric hybrid would be the costliest. Even with the $2 million expense of building a natural-gas fueling station, the natural-gas system would cost $48 million over the span of the project, compared with $54 million for the diesel-electric and $48.5 million for the diesel-only, according to the report.
 The analysis was conducted taking into account likely future diesel and natural-gas prices. Over 20 years, the analysis concludes that the natural-gas option has a 65 percent to 100 percent chance of being lower cost than the diesel option, depending on how price uncertainty is characterized.
 "Moreover, from the environmental perspective, the implementation of CNG buses in the fleet would also produce less emission and provide benefit to the environment of the local society," the report says.
 Emissions of carbon dioxide and particulate matter would continually decrease over the project period if the CityBus fleet were gradually converted for natural gas.
 Carbon dioxide emissions from a diesel-electric hybrid system also would decrease but to a lesser extent, while those emissions from diesel-only buses would increase.
 Particulate matter from those two systems would remain about what they are now. The report notes that production of natural gas in the U.S.
 has increased dramatically in recent years, particularly from the rapid growth in shale gas, and is expected to increase until 2035.
 It also says the price difference between crude oil and natural gas has grown larger since 2009. But it also says transit companies are likely to make the switch to natural gas only when the additional capital costs, such as buying new buses and building natural-gas refueling stations, are covered by the savings in fuel costs over the life spans of the buses.
 Officials of the transit system will consider the results of the report, said Martin Sennett, general manager of CityBus. "Dr. Tyner was extremely helpful to CityBus in helping to formulate a decision on the pros and cons of each fuel choice," Sennett said.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-study-seeks-infant-siblings-of-children-with-autism.html
<Content> Purdue study seeks infant siblings of children with autism
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University researchers are looking for infant siblings of children with autism from central Indiana and Indianapolis to participate in a study to better understand the development of autism in young children.
 The researchers are seeking infants 6-18 months old who have at least one older sibling diagnosed with autism. The younger sibling will need to visit Purdue's Developmental Studies Laboratory about every three to six months, as well as participate in home visits to assess physiological development, sleep regulation and language development.
 The study continues until 30 months of age. "Because 20 to 40 percent of the younger siblings of children with autism develop autism, we are interested in the development of these younger children," said study leader A.J.
 Schwichtenberg, assistant professor&#8232; of human development and family studies and psychological sciences. "We hope to learn more so we can bring the age of diagnosis down for autism.
 Participating in this study also will provide families opportunities to learn more about the individual development of the younger sibling.
" Child development experts will provide regular feedback regarding the baby's development, including assessments of fine and gross motor skills, speech understanding and speaking, emotional regulation, and visual reception.
 In addition to these younger siblings being at risk for autism, they also are at higher risk for other developmental issues such as language delays and social difficulties.
 Sibling boys are more likely to develop autism and sibling girls have higher rates of other developmental problems. Autism is a communicative and developmental disorder that can vary in severity and affect how people interact with others.
 It is estimated that 1 in 88 children have some form of autism. The older sibling with autism can be any age, and the children should be at least half biologically related to each other.
 Participating families can earn up to $350 from the individual $25 reimbursement for each visit and a completed questionnaire packet.
 Anyone interested in learning more or participating can call 765-494-6610 or email AJLab@purdue.edu. This study is funded by a $900,000 grant that Schwichtenberg received in 2011 from the National Institute of Mental Health.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-study-shale-oil-and-gas-a-long-term-boon-to-economy.html
<Content> Purdue study: Shale oil and gas a long-term boon to economy
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The increasing production of shale oil and gas should benefit the U.S. economy by raising the nation's gross domestic product by an average of 3.5 percent annually through 2035, according to a report by Purdue University energy economists.
 "The economic impact of shale oil and gas is clear: It is a game changer for the U.S. economy," said Wally Tyner, the James and Lois Ackerman Professor of Agricultural Economics and one of the researchers.
 Shale oil and gas are found deep underground, below conventional oil and far below the water table. The oil and gas are produced by injecting chemicals, water and sand into the shale rock at high pressure, thereby fracturing the shale rock to release the oil and gas, which is then brought to the surface.
 The report summarizes two papers - one examining the shale oil and gas boom and the other analyzing potential ramifications of significant exports of natural gas - by three researchers in the Department of Agricultural Economics, including assistant professor Farzad Taheripour, who was the lead author, and postdoctoral associate Kemal Sarica.
 The papers were presented in July at the annual North American joint conference of the United States and International Associations for Energy Economics in Anchorage, Alaska.
 Paper summaries now have been made public. "Our results indicate that the shale oil and gas boom should have a major impact on the U.S.
 economy," the researchers say, with the nation's gross domestic product from 2008 to 2035 averaging 2.2 percent higher than its 2007 level.
 Without the expansion in production from shale, the GDP - the value of all of the nation's goods and services - would average 1.3 percent lower.
 "That means that U.S. GDP over the entire period of 2008-2035 on average would be 3.5 percent higher each year than it would have been without the shale boom.
" That amounts to an average of $473 billion per year added to the economy during the period. Restricting gas exports increases the magnitude of the annual gains to $487 billion, according to the report.
 The shale boom has other benefits to the economy, including substantially increasing employment and reducing oil and natural-gas prices, the report states.
 On average each year from 2008 to 2035, oil prices would be 7 percent lower and gas prices 12 percent lower than they would have been without the increased production.
 Further, if gas exports are restricted, prices of natural gas would drop by 24.1 percent and the economy would gain $13.3 billion, according to the report.
 That pales in comparison to a U.S. economy of $15 trillion, the report notes, but the analysis shows that restricting the exports "provides a small but positive benefit.
" The report points out that exporting natural gas is economically attractive to the industry because U.S. prices currently are as little as one-fifth the prices in foreign markets.
 There would be considerable profit to be made even considering the cost of liquefying the gas and shipping it. "On the other side, there is potentially large domestic demand for natural gas in electricity generation, industrial applications, the transportation sector and for other uses," the researchers say.
 "Thus, the question is which pathway provides the best economic and environmental outcome for the U.S." Permitting major exports of natural gas would result in losses in labor and capital income in all energy-intensive sectors and increases in electricity prices, according to the report.
 "The bottom line is that caution is in order in approving large levels of exports," the researchers say. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-stuttering-project-receives-3-million-research-grant.html
<Content> Purdue Stuttering Project receives $3 million research grant
 Purdue University professors Christine Weber-Fox (left) and Anne Smith received a $3 million grant from the National Institutes of Health to understand why some children grow out of stuttering.
 Weber-Fox, a professor of speech, language and hearing sciences and a cognitive neuroscientist, and Smith, a distinguished professor of speech, language and hearing sciences, lead the Purdue Stuttering Project.
 They will use their findings to develop a speech therapy screening tool to better identify which preschool children are not likely to recover and should receive therapy immediately.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Two professors leading the Purdue Stuttering Project have received a $3 million grant from the National Institutes of Health to understand why some children grow out of stuttering.
 They will use their findings to develop a speech therapy screening tool to better identify which preschool children are not likely to recover and should receive therapy immediately.
 "Speech therapy resources are not necessary for every young child who stutters, but the 'Let's wait and see' approach is missing children who could benefit from early intervention," said Anne Smith, a distinguished professor of speech, language and hearing sciences.
 "A diagnostic test battery also could help the clinician prepare the best treatment approach, and the earlier treatment begins, the better, because it is easier to learn new patterns of speaking at a younger age.
 Stuttering often affects many important aspects of life, including social interactions, educational performance and ultimately employment opportunities.
" The award funds a five-year project, and professors Smith and Christine Weber-Fox will follow 100 children who stutter, first seen at ages 4-5, over five years.
 In the first year, the children will complete both standardized and physiological tests of motor, language and emotional development.
 At the end of the project, the research team will compare the scores on these tests for the two groups of children - those who are still stuttering and those who have recovered.
 These early test results will then be the basis for deciding which tests to put in the clinical battery to detect a high risk for chronic stuttering in preschoolers.
 Five percent of preschool-aged children stutter. Stuttering can be seen as involuntary hesitations, sound prolongations or repetition of syllables in speech.
 About 75 percent of preschool children will grow out of stuttering, which is found in all cultures. About 1 percent of the world's adult population stutters.
 This research, which began with Smith in 1988, has been funded by the NIH's National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders for more than 25 years and has received more than $13 million in grant awards.
 "Purdue's program in speech, language and hearing sciences is nationally ranked and known, and the work led by professors Smith and Weber-Fox contributes to that recognition," said Purdue President Mitch Daniels.
 "This project is a great example of how research can lead to greater understanding and a tangible resource that parents will benefit from when they are faced with the question of how to help their child.
" Smith and Weber-Fox, a professor of speech, language and hearing sciences and a cognitive neuroscientist, have been working together since 1999 and have found there is a difference in brain functioning for people who stutter.
 These differences appear in people who stutter whether they are talking, listening or silently reading. The researchers have looked at brain activity and motor coordination for adults and children, but have most recently focused on preschool children and the differences between children who recover from stuttering and those who do not.
 "We see that children whose stuttering persists also lag in development on speech sounds, speech motor coordination and brain functions for processing language, but more research is needed to identify how measures like these can serve as predictive factors that can identify which children who stutter will recover or persist," Weber-Fox said.
 "It has long been known that anxiety about speaking situations is an important aspect of stuttering in adults, but we really do not know if worrying about their 'bumpy' speech is an important factor for little kids," Smith said.
 To help look at these emotional factors, Donald Lyman, professor and director of clinical training in psychological sciences, also is collaborating on this project.
 Lynam's area of focus is in juvenile psychopathology and personality. Also collaborating on the project is Sharon Christ, assistant professor of statistics and human development and family studies.
 Christine Weber-Fox, 765-494-3819, weberfox@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-team-heading-effort-to-create-ag-research-data-system.html
<Content> Purdue team heading effort to create ag research data system
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University researchers are leading an effort to develop a nationwide, unified system for storing and making available to the public the abundance of research data that could help the agricultural industry and policymakers not only now but also many years in the future.
 Sylvie Brouder, a professor of agronomy, and five other Purdue agricultural and library sciences faculty and staff members organized a meeting in Potomac, Md.
, Oct. 10-11 to identify concrete steps for developing an online system for open-access agricultural data. The Smarter Agriculture
 workshop was held in the Washington, D.C., suburb in part to involve federal agencies. The Obama administration has mandated that the direct results of federally funded scientific research be made available to the public digitally.
 That would promote greater and easier access to data that could be used to help drive innovative breakthroughs in areas including health, energy, the environment, national security and agriculture.
 The workshop attracted scientists, librarians, modelers, educators, publishers, leaders of professional societies and partners from the private sector.
 Program managers of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's National Institute of Food and Agriculture, which provided a grant that funded the conference, were unable to attend because of the government shutdown.
 Participants focused on identifying the key challenges and opportunities from their perspectives. "The workshop format was designed to brainstorm, identify and foster beneficial linkages toward the broad goal of developing a functional data infrastructure for agriculture," Brouder said.
 "We want to make research data useful to the agricultural community and policymakers. This infrastructure is critically necessary.
" Open access to agricultural data also could be used in education to help graduate students better interpret and present data, Brouder said.
 Brouder likened the need for greater access to agricultural research data to how the medical profession has used findings from numerous studies conducted over many years to help people determine whether and when they should be screened for breast cancer and prostate cancer.
 She said data from her research on crop nitrogen responses could be repurposed to enable modelers to project how nitrogen applications would affect the environment of an entire watershed without conducting a full series of their own field experiments.
 "The theory is that my data is more useful in aggregate with your data rather than as stand-alone," Brouder said. "Traditionally, data in agricultural research have no purpose beyond the current research.
 But it really does have value beyond that one experiment." She also said the agriculture industry today would know much more about carbon loss from soil if data from experiments decades ago had been preserved.
 "If we had kept certain benchmark pieces of data, we would have had that historical data context in which to conduct our experiments today," she said.
 There are many issues to resolve, such as determining ownership of the information and where it would be stored - with so much data to preserve, multiple sites most likely would be needed - and developing a "common language" for data.
 Brouder noted that even a seemingly simple term as "yield" would need precise definition so the data could be analyzed correctly.
 Farmers, she explained, typically refer to corn yield with the grain having 15.5 percent moisture content, while modelers predicting global yields perform their calculations presuming grain contains no moisture.
 "If we are going to move to open-access data in a meaningful way, we need to label the data in a meaningful, standardized way," she said.
 A statement on the challenges and opportunities from the perspectives of workshop participants is being composed. It will help with the development of data infrastructure for the Purdue College of Agriculture's 
plant sciences initiative, announced in September, as well as ongoing initiatives nationwide. More information from the workshop is available on the Smarter Agriculture website at 
https://ag.purdue.edu/arp/Pages/smarteragriculture.aspx.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-team-leading-stuttering-research-to-speak-at-science-on-tap.html
<Content> Purdue team leading stuttering research to speak at Science on Tap
 Purdue researchers collect a speech sample while a preschool-age child is playing. Through a five-year grant funded by the National Institutes of Health, the Purdue Stuttering Project is working to refine the method of identifying children who are likely to persist in stuttering.
 (Purdue University file photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University team developing screening tools for stutterers, particularly for preschool children, to assist in therapy and other treatments will deliver the next 
Science on Tap talk. Speech, language and hearing sciences professor Christine Weber-Fox and research associate Barbara Brown will speak at 6 p.m.
 Aug. 29 as part of the Science on Tap informal lecture series. The event, which is free and open to those 21 and older, is in the upstairs of the Lafayette Brewing Company, 622 Main St.
, Lafayette. The talk titled "Stuck on Words: Why Do Some Children Continue to Stutter and Others Recover?" is sponsored by the Purdue 
Department of Speech, Language & Hearing Sciences, the College of Health and Human Sciences, and Discovery Park. "This speech disorder can be very frustrating and affects about 1 percent of the world's population and about 5 to 8 percent of preschool children," Weber-Fox said.
 "While most children grow out of it, many experience lifelong challenges with stuttering." Weber-Fox and Brown say their research has focused on the developmental milestones and measures of emotion, brain activity for language, and stability of speech movements in predicting which children who stutter are at high risk for developing chronic stuttering.
 "In our Science on Tap talk, we will discuss what we now know about stuttering, with special emphasis on the development of stuttering in preschool children," she said.
 "We will describe some of our most current research findings and offer tips for parents of children who are stuttering." In the five-year National Institutes of Health sponsored study, called the Purdue Stuttering Project, the researchers worked with groups of 4-year-olds who both stutter and are normally fluent.
 Returning to the Purdue labs every year for five years, the children were tested on a variety of physiological fronts, as well as with speech and language measures.
 The second five years of the Purdue program, which kicked off in April through a $3 million grant from NIH, will refine the method of identifying children who are likely to persist in stuttering, said Brown, who is coordinator for the Purdue Stuttering Project.
 "We'll use that information to develop screening tools to help speech pathologists determine which children should receive therapy right away," Brown said.
 Leading the Purdue Stuttering Project are Anne Smith, a distinguished professor of speech, language and hearing sciences, along with Weber-Fox and Brown.
 Weber-Fox describes stuttering as a multifactorial disorder - one that is not the same for everyone. Interactions between speech motor-control issues, anxiety or emotional levels and atypical brain-wave activities for language could all put a speaker on pause.
 A cognitive neuroscientist, Weber-Fox uses electro-caps to measure how the brain responds to these kinds of input. With yearly measures providing specific details on both children who stutter and those who recover, researchers can develop detailed profiles of each child, potentially leading to more tailored treatment for stuttering.
 Weber-Fox joined the Department of Speech, Language & Hearing Sciences at Purdue in 1999. After receiving her doctorate degree, she completed a postdoctoral fellowship at the Salk Institute in the area of cognitive neuroscience.
 Science on Tap, led by Purdue graduate students Patrick Dolan and Becca Scott, provides Purdue faculty and collaborating researchers the opportunity to share research activities in an informal setting with presentations that are designed to appeal to a more general audience.
 Attendance at the monthly event has averaged 80 during the program's first two years. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-technology-center-provides-247-co-working-space-program-for-business-people.html
<Content> Purdue Technology Center provides 24/7 co-working space program for business people
 MERRILLVILLE, Ind. - Business people could strengthen their ability to complete operational tasks on a flexible schedule through a subscription program offered at the Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana.
 The co-working space program provides more than 1,000 square feet of common area workspace in the technology center, 9800 Connecticut Drive, Crown Point.
 Kathy J. DeGuilio-Fox, director of the center, said subscribers benefit by having access to workspace, meeting rooms and business amenities 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
 "Sometimes professionals don't need an office each day and all day, but they want space to meet and collaborate with others, or to use a business center or conference rooms, or to establish a well-recognized, professional and secure business address," she said.
 "These are available upon request through the co-working space program, along with mail and shipping services and a receptionist during standard business hours.
" Mary M. Hills, Principal, at Chicago-based HeimannHills Marketing Group, said the co-working space program combines professional development and social programming at the technology center.
 "I have attended many Tech Talk networking events, the technology roadshow where Purdue-created innovations are showcased for commercialization and other professional development seminars at the center the past year," she said.
 "This level of professionalism and the entrepreneurial programming are good fits for HeimannHills Marketing Group." DeGuilio-Fox said subscribers become part of an established community of creative, entrepreneurial individuals at the center.
 "Subscribers could be entrepreneurs of any kind: young or old, high-tech or low-tech, corporate or early-stage startup. Anyone who travels in the northwest Indiana region and needs access to business amenities can benefit by using the co-working space," she said.
 For more information about the Purdue Technology Center's co-working space program, contact DeGuilio-Fox at 219-644-3683, kjdegulio-fox@prf.org
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The parks are home to about 200 companies that employ about 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 Source: Kathy DeGuilio-Fox, 219-644-3683, kjdeguilio-fox@prf.org</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-technology-centers-named-finalist-for-international-award.html
<Content> Purdue Technology Centers named finalist for international award
 The Herman and Heddy Kurz Purdue Technology Center is the newest building to be dedicated in the 725-acre Purdue Research Park in West Lafayette, Ind.
 The park is home to more than 160 companies and provides 364,000 square feet for new companies, making it the largest business incubator in the state.
 (Purdue University photo/Andrew Hancock) Download Photo ATHENS, Ohio – Purdue Technology Centers, a network of four business incubation programs in Indiana, has been named a finalist for the National Business Incubation Association's (NBIA) 2013 Incubator Network of the Year award.
 The other finalist for the award is the University of Central Florida Business Incubation Program in Central Florida. This is the first year for this new award category.
 The recipient of the honor will be announced April 9 at the NBIA's 27th International Conference on Business Incubation in Boston.
 Purdue Technology Centers' mission is to spur economic growth across Indiana by seeding new technologies, growing companies and new industries, and creating employment opportunities.
 Business incubation programs like those in the Purdue Technology Centers' network catalyze the process of starting and growing companies by providing entrepreneurs with the expertise, networks and tools they need to make their ventures successful.
 The National Business Incubation Association estimates that in 2011 alone, North American incubators assisted about 49,000 startups that provided full-time employment for nearly 200,000 workers and generated annual revenue of almost $15 billion.
 Approximately 7,000 business incubators operate worldwide. The Purdue Technology Centers is a network of four business incubation sites across Indiana operated by the Purdue Research Foundation.
 The first incubator opened in West Lafayette in 1993, with Purdue Technology Center of Northwest Indiana in Merrillville added in 2005, Purdue Technology Center of Southeast Indiana in New Albany in 2008, and Purdue Technology Center of Indianapolis in 2009.
 As anchors of each Purdue Research Park, from 1999 to 2010, the parks generated $256 million in investment, $49 million in state and federal grants and $48 million in state and local taxes.
 The program also helped create 216 companies with a total of more than 4,000 jobs and average salaries of $63,000. The National Business Incubation Association is the world's leading organization advancing business incubation and entrepreneurship.
 Each year, the NBIA Incubation Awards honor the business incubation programs, graduates and client companies that exemplify the best of the industry.
 Sources: John Hanak, Purdue Technology Centers statewide director, 317-614-0793, jmhanak@prf.org Linda Knopp, National Business Incubation Association director of policy analysis and research, (740) 593-4154, 
lknopp@nbia.org </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-technology-that-helps-surgeons-see-cancer-tissue-is-being-tested.html
<Content> Purdue technology that helps surgeons see cancer tissue is being tested
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. and PHILADELPHIA - OnTarget Laboratories LLC has teamed with partners in academia to test a novel optical imaging technology developed at 
Purdue University that could help surgeons see cancer tissue during surgery. The technology, developed by Philip Low, the Ralph C.
 Corley Distinguished Professor of Chemistry at Purdue, is based on the over-expression of specific receptors on solid cancerous tumors and enables illumination of the tumor tissue during surgery.
 OnTarget Laboratories has developed small molecule ligands specific for these receptors and attached them to proprietary fluorescent imaging agents.
 It is anticipated that the tumor-targeted fluorescent dyes will help surgeons remove more of the tumor than would have been otherwise possible.
 Data from the initial use of this technology in humans was published in Nature Medicine in October 2011. The collaboration between the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania and Purdue will enable surgeons across various specialties to test these probes in surgeries of breast cancer, lung cancer, ovarian cancer and renal cancer.
 These initial studies, if successful, could lead to more pivotal studies and thereby eventually benefit many patients with cancer.
 "Our patients look for the best options for the treatment of their cancers. If we are able to see cancer better during surgery and remove more of the tumor without endangering the patient, there is likely to be significant benefit to the patient.
 Given that the ligands target specific receptors that are over-expressed on tumors, we hope to better differentiate normal from cancer tissue, and thereby remove more of the malignant disease," he said.
 "I will be working with my colleagues to test and hopefully improve this technology in the operating room." "This collaboration will help translate our technology from bench to bedside," he said.
 "Surgery is the bedrock for the treatment of most solid tumors, and our developing technology could help the intra-operative visualization of most such tumors in the future.
" OnTarget Laboratories is in the business of discovering, developing and commercializing small molecules that, when conjugated with fluorescent dyes, target and illuminate specific cancerous cells and other diseased tissue.
 These conjugates can be used by doctors, including surgeons, worldwide to better diagnose and treat a wide range of diseases from cancer to inflammation-related disorders.
 OnTarget and its partners could help doctors dramatically change the outcome for their patients. The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation program in the country.
 The park's four Indiana sites are in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany. The nearly 200 companies located in the park network employ about 4,000 people.
 Sunil Singhal, Perelman School of Medicine, sunil.singhal@uphs.upenn.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-to-accelerate-drug-discovery,-development.html
<Content> Purdue to accelerate drug discovery, development
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Adding to Purdue's strengths in drug discovery and the capacity to translate basic research into life-changing treatments, spearheaded by the Center for Drug Discovery, is among a series of initiatives being targeted by the university.
 Purdue President Mitch Daniels, in his President's Forum on Thursday (Sept. 12), highlighted how the center will create an innovative research and teaching environment to stimulate discovery and the translation of basic research into new ways to diagnose and treat disease.
 "Here, as in other areas, we will seek to reinforce existing excellence," Daniels said. "Purdue has the proven talent, knowledge and drive to create new treatments and tools that improve health worldwide.
 Purdue researchers are already hard at work finding the connection between the molecular basis of disease and compounds to change the course of disease.
 Through Purdue's Center for Drug Discovery, we will accelerate the rate of drug discovery to move revelations from the lab to commercialization and then to the million of patients who need hope and relief.
" The Purdue Center for Drug Discovery supports more than 100 faculty in six colleges and its research will focus on four disease categories: cancer; diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular; immune and infectious disease; and neurological disorders and trauma.
 Joining Daniels at the forum were Philip Low, the Ralph C. Corley Distinguished Professor of Chemistry and inaugural director of the center, and Timothy Ratliff, professor and the Robert Wallace Miller Director of the Purdue University 
Center for Cancer Research. Ratliff, Low and directors of other Purdue centers with research focused on the disease targets will meet regularly to share discoveries and ensure a unified, efficient progression of the research.
 "This new Purdue center will advance the level of research among our faculty and the educational experience of our research-driven and entrepreneurially focused undergraduate and graduate students," Low said.
 "It will encourage collaboration. It will bring people and their distinctive talents together, accelerating our rates of discovery and translation.
 And it sends the message to the world that Purdue University is committed to excellence in the field of drug discovery and development.
" Purdue has strengths along all of the points of the drug discovery pipeline, including a premier structural biology group with a track record of discovering new targets to block disease, a chemistry department that has produced two Nobel laureates and is a leader in structure-based drug design, and top-ranked engineering and pharmacy programs, Ratliff said.
 "Purdue has all the fundamentals and a history of getting things done - including more than 30 compounds at various stages of clinical development," he said.
 "If we build on this strength and put infrastructure in place to overcome the remaining challenges, the university can bring many more potentially life-changing or life-saving drugs to the clinic.
" In addition, 14 core units are in place to provide shared resources for analysis, screening, synthesis and testing of potential therapeutic compounds, he said.
 "We don't want any potential new treatment to fail because there isn't a resource to move it forward," Ratliff said. "Perhaps the professor who made the discovery doesn't have the expertise for the next step in the process.
 We want to make it easy for one professor to pass the torch to another and to draw on the reserves of our talented research staff to finish the marathon of drug discovery in record time.
" The new center will help increase funding from federal agencies and industry, Low said. In a time of reduced overall federal support, investment in drug discovery remains strong.
 Purdue also will be in a unique position to capitalize on a trend by major pharmaceutical companies to outsource research and development to universities and biotechnology firms, he said.
 The industry spent $9.4 billion in outsourcing its R&D in 2011, Kalorama Information reports. "Purdue is among an elite handful of universities that are very productive in this area, and we are well-positioned to partner with the pharmaceutical industry and become a world leader in drug discovery," Low said.
 Estimates also show that it costs approximately $1.4 billion and takes 10 years to bring a new prescription drug to the market, and pharmaceutical companies want to be confident in a drug candidate before pursuing it.
 That means compounds already through early testing and validation are much more competitive, Low said. "Taking a discovery further along the drug development path, which is what this center is all about, is much more lucrative for the researcher and the university," he said.
 "The greatest return on research investment is right after establishing a 'proof of principle,' and taking a discovery through to this point means the difference between thousands and millions of dollars for the university.
 These revenues represent money that can be put back into discovery research and, thereby, further enhance our potential to change the world.
" Other goals of the Purdue Center for Drug Discovery, which will be a part of Discovery Park and located in a state-of-the-art facility opening next spring in the Life and Health Sciences Park on the south end of campus, include:
 * The center advances Purdue's primary mission to move discoveries from the laboratories to benefit citizens. This will be accomplished as Purdue researchers translate discoveries into the clinic, and then into commercial use, and through training courses in the development of startup companies, all of which will contribute to the state's economy.
 * Advancing its role as a research leader in this area, Purdue becomes even more competitive in gaining larger research grants from state and federal agencies such as the National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, the U.S.
 Department of Defense, and major foundations and philanthropic organizations. * Cutting-edge facilities are a magnet for attracting leading faculty and top-tier students.
 This also accelerates efforts to develop a curriculum and a learning culture that focuses on all aspects of the drug discovery pipeline - from discovery and development to the patenting of technology and processes that can be commercialized for greater and immediate impact.
 "Students will get to experience all parts of the drug discovery process and see what it takes to get all the way through," Ratliff said.
 "Our students also will have the opportunity to be trained for careers in very popular and in-demand areas." More details on the initiatives will be provided by Daniels throughout the fall semester.
 The initiatives were selected and developed over several months of work that involved deans, faculty and others at the university.
 Purdue's trustees also have reviewed and given support for the program. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-to-award-10-honorary-doctorates-during-spring-commencement.html
<Content> Purdue to award 10 honorary doctorates during spring commencement
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University will award 10 honorary doctorate degrees during commencement ceremonies this spring. Nine of the honorary doctorates will be presented during ceremonies May 10-12 in the Elliott Hall of Music on the West Lafayette campus.
 Another will be presented May 12 during the Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis ceremony at the Indiana Convention Center in Indianapolis.
 W. Dwight Armstrong of Indianapolis, who is CEO at the National FFA Organization. Armstrong served on the faculty at North Carolina State University in the Animal Sciences Department from 1975-82.
 In 2008, he retired from Provimi and started his own consulting business with a focus on animal nutrition and agribusiness. In 2009, Armstrong joined the National FFA Organization as its chief operating officer and was later named CEO.
 Armstrong will receive a doctor of agriculture degree at 9:30 a.m. May 11. Kathy (Fitchey) Calvin of Ellicott City, Md., who is president and CEO of the United Nations Foundation.
 Calvin joined the foundation as chief operating officer in 2003, was promoted to CEO in 2009, and was named president and CEO in 2013.
 Prior to joining the UN Foundation, she was president of the AOL Time Warner Foundation where she guided AOL Time Warner's philanthropic activities and was the chief architect of the company's corporate responsibility initiatives.
 In 2011, Calvin was named one of Newsweek's "150 Women Who Rock the World," and in 2012, she was listed in Fast Company's "League of Extraordinary Women.
" Her innovative work in the philanthropy and international non-governmental organizations sector was featured by the New York Times in 2011.
 She will receive a doctor of social sciences degree at 2:30 p.m. May 12. Jane Chance of Galveston, Texas, who is the Andrew W. Mellon Distinguished Professor Emerita of English at Rice University in Houston.
 She taught medieval literature, medievalism, and the study of women and gender there from 1973 - when she became the first tenure-track woman to teach in her department - until 2011.
 She also taught at the University of Saskatchewan-Saskatoon and was an honorary research fellow at University College, University of London.
 She has published 22 books and more than 100 articles, reviews and poems - many of them reprinted. She will receive a doctor of letters degree at 2:30 p.m.
 May 12. Juan Ernesto de Bedout of Atlanta, Ga., who is the former group president of Latin American Operations, Kimberly-Clark Corp.
 He has also held leadership roles at VF Corp. and Colombiana de Tabaco. He led the formation of Latin America's first Blue Ocean Strategy Institute in São Paulo, Brazil.
 Since retiring as an officer of the corporation in 2011, he has been serving as senior consultant, sitting on the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Africa leadership board, and as adviser to the newly formed Global Innovation Center in Colombia.
 De Bedout is chair of Purdue's Engineering Advisory Council and a member of the Industrial Engineering Advisory Council. He helped launch the Colombia-Purdue Institute for Advanced Scientific Research, promoting mutually beneficial initiatives aligned with Colombia's strategic priorities and Purdue's strengths.
 He will receive a doctor of engineering degree at 2:30 p.m. May 11. Anthony "Tony" Harris of Alameda, Calif., who is president and CEO of Campbell/Harris Security Equipment Co.
 (CSECO), a manufacturer of contraband, explosives and "dirty bomb" detection equipment. The company's primary customers include the U.S.
 State Department, the Department of Homeland Security, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection. He is a founder of the National Society of Black Engineers and currently serves as chair of its national advisory board.
 Harris is a member of the Executive Leadership Council, and he serves on the board of directors of the SFJAZZ Center Foundation and the One Pacific Coast Bank Advisory Board.
 He will receive a doctor of engineering degree at 2:30 p.m. May 11. Vice Adm. Gerald L. Hoewing of Pensacola, Fla., who was the 53rd chief of naval personnel.
 Hoewing received his commission in May 1971 through the NROTC Scholarship Program and was designated a naval aviator in August 1972.
 He served with Attack Squadrons 147, 122 and 94, and completed several western Pacific deployments aboard USS Constellation (CV 64) and USS Kitty Hawk (CV 63).
 In 1993, he assumed command of the fast combat logistics support ship USS Seattle (AOE 3), deploying to the Mediterranean in support of the USS Theodore Roosevelt battle group.
 In January 1995, he became the 20th commanding officer of USS John F. Kennedy (CV 67). He later served as the senior military assistant to the under secretary of defense for personnel and readiness in Washington, D.C.
 In 2002, Hoewing assumed the duties of chief of naval personnel/deputy chief of naval operations (manpower and personnel). He will receive a doctor of education degree at 9:30 a.m.
 May 11. Laurence H. Hurley of Tucson, Ariz., who is the Howard J. Schaffer Endowed Chair in Pharmaceutical Sciences at the University of Arizona, Tucson.
 Hurley, the scientific founder of Cylene Pharmaceuticals and of TetraGene, has served on the faculties at the universities of Maryland, Kentucky and Texas at Austin.
 His current research interests are in the areas of design and development of antitumor agents. In cooperation with the biopharmaceutical industry, several drugs developed from these studies have been evaluated in phase I and phase II clinical trials, and one is now approved for cancer treatment.
 He will receive a doctor of science degree at 2:30 p.m. May 12. David S. Leckrone of Silver Spring, Md., who worked as an astrophysicist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center for 40 years before retiring.
 For more than three decades, he served in various scientific leadership roles on the Hubble Space Telescope Project. From 1992 to 2009, he was Hubble's senior project scientist.
 He provided scientific leadership for all aspects of the Hubble program, including program management, spacecraft and science operations, development of new scientific instruments and in-orbit servicing.
 From 2003-06, he was the chief scientist for the newly formed NASA Engineering and Safety Center, which was organized in response to the loss of Shuttle Columbia.
 He is an internationally recognized and widely published authority on ultraviolet astronomy, spectroscopic analysis of stellar atmospheres, and the abundances of the chemical elements in both normal and chemically peculiar stars.
 He will receive a doctor of science degree at 8 p.m. May 10. Chris Stout of Kildeer, Ill., who is the founding director of the Center for Global Initiatives and a licensed clinical psychologist.
 Stout has been involved in multiple start-ups including financial management, health-care centers, engineering, two dot-coms, real estate, and consulting.
 He is a clinical professor in the College of Medicine at the University of Illinois at Chicago, and adviser to their Center for Global Health.
 He is a Fellow in the School of Public Health and holds an academic appointment in the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.
 He has also been a visiting professor at Rush University. He will receive a doctor of technology degree at 3:30 p.m. May 12 at an IUPUI commencement ceremony
. Thomas S. Wilmeth of Daingerfield, Texas, who is chairman of Scot Industries. Wilmeth is a lifelong entrepreneur. He has been recognized by Purdue for his understanding and appreciation for the need to use published research outside of academe to advance industrial methods and to create new engineering processes and technological applications.
 In 1949, Wilmeth and his younger brother, Harvey, started Scot Industries Inc., in Milwaukee. Over the past 45 years, Wilmeth and his son, Steven, have built an international business with 11 plants.
 He has been a longtime supporter through his philanthropy of the goals of the Purdue University Libraries. He remains chairman of Scot Industries at age 99.
 He will receive a doctor of engineering information literacy at 2:30 p.m. May 11. Contact: Barbara Leonard, 765-494-2972, bhleonard@purdue.edu
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/purdue-to-celebrate-national-coming-out-day.html
<Content> Purdue to celebrate National Coming Out Day
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University organizations will celebrate National Coming Out Day on Thursday (Oct. 11) with an information fair from 11 a.m.
 to 1 p.m. in Purdue Memorial Union's South Ballroom and a speech by Bernadette Barton, an author and professor. University and community leaders will speak in support of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer community (LGBTQ) during the fair.
 Multiple campus and city entities also will be represented and will provide materials about services offered by their organizations.
 Barton, who will speak at 7:30 p.m. in Stewart Center's Loeb Playhouse, is a professor of sociology and women's studies at Morehead State University.
 She studies the experiences of members of marginalized groups, and is particularly interested in issues of transformation and social justice.
 Her latest book, "Pray the Gay Away: the Extraordinary Lives of Bible Belt Gays," explores the intersection of religion and homosexuality in the Bible Belt.
 The events, which are free and open to the public, are sponsored by the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Center and the office of the Vice Provost for Diversity and Inclusion.
 Sources: Lowell Kane, 765-496-6231, LGBTQ@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-to-expand-entrepreneurship-hub,-increase-commercialization-endeavors-.html
<Content> Purdue to expand entrepreneurship hub, increase commercialization endeavors 
 The two-story, 31,000-square-foot Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship in Discovery Park houses a number of offices, conference rooms and work spaces for Purdue University faculty, staff and student entrepreneurs.
 The Purdue Foundry will open on the second floor of the facility this summer. (Purdue University file photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 – Purdue University announces the July 15 opening of the Purdue Foundry, an entrepreneurship and commercialization hub in the 
Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship. The foundry will collaborate with longstanding activities already taking place in the center with a goal to increase the growing demand from Purdue innovators who have an interest in forming a startup or licensing their discoveries.
 "Purdue has a great opportunity to expand the support of its robust entrepreneurial ecosystem that involves every Purdue college and department," said Dan Hasler, president of the 
Purdue Research Foundation and Purdue University's chief entrepreneurial officer. "We can do this by partnering with the entrepreneurial professionals already working in the Burton D.
 Morgan Center to guide and support Purdue innovators as they prepare to move their technologies to the people who need them." The Purdue Foundry will be based on the second floor of the 31,000-square-foot Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship. The center already houses a number of entrepreneurial activities, including business plan competitions and the Purdue Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation program.
 The foundry will be supported and managed by the Purdue Research Foundation and its team of intellectual property, business development and venture capital experts who will work in collaboration with entrepreneurial professionals already based in Discovery Park's Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship. The Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship houses a number of initiatives to encourage entrepreneurial research by Purdue University's faculty, staff and students.
 The facility hosts a number of entrepreneurial activities, including business plan competitions, the Purdue Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation program and the Purdue Foundry.
 (Purdue News Service photo) Download Photo "The opening of the Purdue Foundry within Discovery Park will allow us to use a more integrated approach for supporting Purdue students, faculty and staff," said Joe Pekny, a chemical engineering professor, entrepreneur and recently appointed interim director designate of the Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship. "Providing a strong support system for Purdue innovators from discovery to commercialization under one roof will enable us to expand the services and programs we already provide.
" The Purdue Foundry's primary success metric will be the doubling of Purdue's successful technology-based startup ventures over the next two years.
 "Our mission is to make sure that all who could possibly improve the lives of others as a result of a Purdue invention get that chance.
 It's a tall order, but one I believe we are all up to," Hasler said. "We know there are many more Purdue faculty, staff and student innovators doing pioneering research that could lead to a startup or to market opportunity.
 We want to reach faculty, staff and student innovators by better focusing the support and assistance they need to be successful in their technology transfer activities.
" The Burton D. Morgan Foundation provided support for the facility's construction. Morgan graduated from Purdue in 1938 with a major in mechanical engineering and was a prolific entrepreneur who founded 50 companies in his lifetime.
 "The Burton D. Morgan Foundation continues to champion the work of Purdue's Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, and we are excited about the expansion of startup services through the establishment of the Purdue Foundry," said Deborah D.
 Hoover, president and CEO of the Burton D. Morgan Foundation. "Mr. Morgan would be bursting with pride at his alma mater's sophisticated and networked programs to assist entrepreneurs and their ventures.
" The Purdue Foundry also will form partnerships with outside organizations such as Elevate Ventures, an Indianapolis-based startup support firm, to assist Purdue innovators.
 "Research institutions like Purdue are powerhouses in generating cutting-edge ideas and technologies," said Steve Hourigan, CEO of Elevate Ventures.
 "It is a privilege to partner with Purdue's leadership in creating this collaborative platform, translating these ideas and technologies into high-potential, high-growth Indiana companies.
 We look forward to putting our manpower and investment dollars to work through the Purdue Foundry." Johnny Park, a research assistant professor in electrical and computer engineering, licensed his discovery, called Z-Trap, and formed Spensa Technologies in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette.
 His discovery controls insects in apple orchards and reduces the amount of insecticides emitted into the environment. "Figuring out how to form a company is not something you learn as a researcher, but with the help of the technology transfer leaders, the business professionals and the marketing team at the Purdue Research Foundation, I received the help I needed to get my company off the ground," Park said.
 "Having this team available on campus will be a tremendous asset for Purdue innovators." Johnny Park, 765-588-3592, johnny.park@spensatech.com
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-to-host-2nd-summer-institute-on-global-food-security.html
<Content> Purdue to host 2nd summer institute on global food security
 Jim Beaty, superintendent of Purdue’s Agronomy Center for Research and Education, explains the agronomy farm to students of the 2012 Borlaug Summer Institute on Global Food Security during the group's field trip there.
 With them is Gary Burniske (second from left), managing director of the Purdue Center for Global Food Security, which hosted the institute.
 The center will be the host of another institute May 28 to June 8. (Purdue Center for Global Food Security photo/Cininta Pertiwi) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A new group of graduate students representing the next generation of leaders that will tackle issues involving world hunger will assemble at Purdue University for the second Borlaug Summer Institute on Global Food Security.
 The two-week institute, hosted by the Purdue Center for Global Food Security, will be May 28 to June 8. Thirty-five graduate students from 25 U.S.
 universities, including Purdue, are in the 2013 class. The institute is a component of a five-year program to train U.S. graduate students in food security and global challenges in sustainable agriculture and related fields such as climate change, water, energy, economics, policy, technology and the environment.
 It is part of the U.S. Borlaug Fellows in Global Food Security program, funded by a $5 million grant from the U.S. Agency for International Development.
 Students successfully completing the summer program are encouraged to apply for a Borlaug Fellows graduate research grant. Purdue student Ian Pope received a $15,000 grant to conduct research that focuses on detecting historical deforestation of the Guatemalan cloud forest and how inefficient agricultural practices in deforested areas threaten the long-term viability of soil quality for future generations.
 "For me, the summer institute drove home the message that research aimed at solving the problems associated with global food security must take a trans-disciplinary approach," Pope said.
 "The collaboration between academia and governmental and non-governmental organizations is critical for us to gain traction in what is arguably one of the most daunting challenges of the 21st century.
" The summer institute includes lectures, reviews of case studies, small-group discussions and field trips. Instructors are from Purdue and other institutions.
 They include faculty, practitioners and policymakers who have expertise in the natural, social and health sciences, and engineering and in integrated approaches to solving problems.
 Key speakers this year include Paul Schickler, president of DuPont Pioneer; Philip E. Nelson, retired Purdue food scientist and 2007 recipient of the World Food Prize; Lisa Eakman, executive director of the Global Agriculture and Food Initiative of The Chicago Council on Global Affairs; and Pamela Anderson, director general of the International Potato Center.
 Sofia Feng is among three students from the first institute who will return to tell the 2013 class how their experiences during the program have helped them in their education and research.
 "The 2012 Borlaug Summer Institute has been one of the most remarkable moments during my journey as a graduate student in the U.S.
," said Feng, who is from Costa Rica and is pursuing a doctorate in food science and nutrition at North Carolina State University.
 Also returning to the institute for a presentation will be Julie Borlaug, assistant director for partnerships of The Borlaug Institute for International Agriculture at Texas A&M University.
 She is the granddaughter of the late Norman Borlaug, an agronomist and humanitarian for whom the institute is named. Gebisa Ejeta, director of the Center for Global Food Security and 2009 World Food Prize laureate, will give a welcoming address May 29 before work sessions begin.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-to-host-community-forums-on-ostracism.html
<Content> Purdue to host community forums on ostracism
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Parents, teachers and others who work with children can learn about the lasting effects of ostracism in a series of community forums sponsored by 
Purdue Extension that begins Oct 30. "All In: Building a Positive Community" is a three-part series that will address ostracism and other negative behaviors that hurt and exclude others, and how to develop a community action plan.
 "People aren't aware of the devastating impact ostracism can have on others," said Janet Ayres, professor of agricultural economics, who will lead the forums.
 "We want to move people from 'I wasn't aware' to 'what can I do?'" The series kicks off Oct. 30 with the screening of the documentary "
Reject" (for adults 19 and over). The film features Kipling D. Williams, a Purdue professor of psychological sciences, who has researched ostracism for 20 years, and tells the story of two American families affected by social rejection.
 A discussion on awareness, which includes Williams and film producer Ruth Thomas-Suh, will follow. The first session will be held at Delphi Community High School Little Theater, 301 Armory Road, Delphi.
 Nov. 6; Williams discusses research about inclusion/exclusion and strategies for handling ostracism and rejection. Carroll Junior-Senior High School cafeteria, 2362 E.
 state Route 18, Flora. Nov. 13: Participants will discuss actions that individuals and organizations can take to build more inclusive relationships.
 Wabash and Erie Canal Conference Center, 1030 N Washington St., Delphi. Prior to the sessions, a light supper will be served at 6 p.m.; programs begin at 6:30 p.m.
 Children's activities will be provided. The series is free of charge, and registration is not required. For more information, contact Joanne Lytton at 765-564-3169 or 
lytton@purdue.edu, or Janet Ayres at 765-494-4215 or ayres@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-to-host-deming-institute-conference.html
<Content> Purdue to host Deming Institute conference
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - People from across the country will gather at Purdue University to explore the philosophy of the man credited with improving manufacturing processes and quality control in the United States and Japan and how his ideas relate to sustainability.
 Deming's teachings, going back to post-World War II Japan, were the beginning of the Total Quality Management model, which has been adopted by companies around the world.
 The conference's theme, Out of the Crises - New Thinking for a Sustainable World, will explore Deming's theories and how they relate in today's world.
 The conference is specifically geared for students, executives, managers, educators and entrepreneurs across all business, government, health care, education and nonprofit sectors.
 * "Highlighting SIA's Zero-Landfill Strategy," Tom Easterday, executive vice president of Subaru of Indiana Automotive. * "Application of Deming's Principles to the Sustainability Challenge," John Sutherland, Purdue's Fehsenfeld Family Head of Environmental and Ecological Engineering.
 * "Investing in a Regenerative New Economy," John Fullerton, founder and president of Capital Institute. * "Sustainability as a National Imperative," Mark "Puck" Mykleby, retired U.S.
 Marine Corps colonel and senior fellow of New America Foundation. * "Patagonia's Quality and Sustainability Journey," Randy Harward, Patagonia vice president for advanced research and development.
 * "Remembering Dr. Deming," Nida Backaitis, organizational effectiveness consultant with MITRE Corp. Cost of the conference is $275 if registering by Sept.
 1 and $325 after that date. The student registration fee is $225. Registration and more information are available at https://www.deming.org/content/2013-fall-conference-0
 Student scholarships are available. Contact Rodney Vandeveer at vandevee@purdue.edu for more information. Source: Rodney Vandeveer, 765-494-6804, 
vandevee@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-to-host-national-conference-for-agribusiness.html
<Content> Purdue to host National Conference for Agribusiness
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Agribusiness professionals will better understand what drives loyalty and buying decisions of commercial producers by attending the National Conference for Agribusiness Nov.
 4-5 at Purdue University. Guest speakers will discuss information from the Large Commercial Producer Project, a nationwide survey of the buying behaviors of commercial farmers and ranchers.
 The Purdue Center for Food and Agricultural Business conducts the survey every five years. "The agenda is packed with interesting topics and sessions built around understanding large commercial agricultural producers' strategies, buying behaviors, information preferences and loyalty," said Michael Gunderson, associate professor and associate director of research at the Center for Food and Agricultural Business, the conference organizer.
 "The faculty will lead sessions that consider the future of agricultural production in an era of booming farm profits and what the future means for serving large commercial producers.
" The conference will examine several key topics from the survey data, including insights to producers' loyalty to brands and retailers, understanding what is critical to the success of their operations, time spent on management, and the importance of dealers and sales staff in buying decisions.
 About 300 people are expected to attend the conference, which would be of interest to managers, executives, specialists and analysts from such organizations as agricultural retailers, farm equipment manufacturers and dealers, retail seed company and distributors, crop protection companies, animal health and nutrition companies, and food product manufacturers and processors.
 The cost to attend is $1,295. Continuing education credit and Certified Crop Adviser credit is available. For more information, call the center at 765-494-4247.
 Additional information about the conference, including how to register, is available at https://www.agecon.purdue.edu/cab/programs/nca
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-to-host-veterans-for-entrepreneurship-program.html
<Content> Purdue to host veterans for entrepreneurship program
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University will host 29 veterans beginning Friday (Nov. 1) for the Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans with Disabilities.
 Purdue's Krannert School of Management is one of eight schools at universities around the country that teach the bootcamp, which is aimed at helping post-9/11 veterans with disabilities start their own businesses.
 The veterans will begin the program in Indianapolis where Mayor Greg Ballard will welcome them at an opening reception at the Indiana War Memorial.
 The EBV students will be on the Purdue campus from Saturday evening through Nov. 9, which is Military Appreciation Day at Purdue.
 The EBV events will end with a commencement celebration at the Purdue Memorial Union. Created at Syracuse University's Whitman School of Management in 2007, EBV teaches participants principles of entrepreneurship and small-business management.
 All expenses are paid. The program is conducted in three phases: a self-study session in which veterans had access to the Ice House Entrepreneurship Program, a new online learning program; an intensive, on-campus residency session where veterans learn to develop their own business concepts and understand the basic elements of small-business management; and a 12-month mentorship with faculty experts at the participating universities.
 Students are accepted into the program based on the quality of their proposals for starting their own businesses. This year's Krannert class comes from 16 states, including two participants from Indiana: Ryan Bardes, an Army veteran from Indianapolis, and Jason Crook, a Marine veteran from Hebron.
 EBV integrates faculty, entrepreneurs, disability experts and business professionals. Veterans receive instruction on topics such as feasibility and market analysis, supply chain management, and financing new ventures.
 Among the speakers the veterans will hear are Krannert Dean Christopher Earley; Air Force Col. Tim Cahoon; Michael Haynie, EBV founder and executive director of the Institute for Military Families at Syracuse; &#8232;William and Kathy Scheessele, MBDi Group&#8232;; Thomas Spurgeon, Purdue Board of Trustees chairman; &#8232;Jack Ricchiutti, writer and engagement artist; &#8232;Bonnie Harvey and Michael Houlihan, co-founders of Barefoot Winery; &#8232;Les Meade, a judge and Purdue lecturer; &#8232;Josh Lindblom, major league baseball player; &#8232;Jack Plunkett, CEO of Plunkett Research; auto dealer &#8232;Bob Rohrman; &#8232;Jason Levin, partner in DLA Piper global law firm; Purdue football coach Darrell Hazell; Coast Guard Rear Adm.
 Thomas Ostebo; Dr. Tony Ratliff of Stony Creek Dentistry and MissionKonnect; and Eddie Rivers of Kids' Voice of Indiana. The EBV participants will present their commercialization plans on Nov.
 8 during a Purdue Military and Veterans Affairs Symposium at Krannert. The EBV class will be recognized at the Purdue-University of Iowa football game Nov.
 9. The veterans also will be visited during the week by a therapy cat and dogs from the Lafayette Caring Paws organization. In addition to Krannert and Syracuse, others in the EBV consortium are the University of California, Los Angeles, Anderson School of Management; the Mays Business School at Texas A&M University; the Florida State University College of Business; the University of Connecticut School of Business; E.J.
 Ourso College of Business, Louisiana State University; and Cornell University's School of Hotel Administration. More information on the EBV program can be found at 
http://www.krannert.purdue.edu/military/ebv/ Source: Melissa Evens, Krannert director of military and veterans affairs, 765-494-4392, 
mevens@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/purdue-to-increase-engineering-faculty-by-a-third.html
<Content> Purdue to increase engineering faculty by a third
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University is embarking on a program to increase its College of Engineering faculty by 30 percent over the next five years.
 The additional faculty will allow the college to grow enrollment and expand the breadth and depth of its research efforts. "This move will provide an economic benefit to the country as we educate more engineers with the Purdue credentials that are highly valued by industry, government and academia," said acting President Timothy Sands.
 "The U.S. Council on Jobs and Competitiveness has called for an additional 10,000 engineers a year. We're stepping up to this challenge.
 We want to add to our pool of highly qualified students, especially Hoosiers, at a time when the nation is demanding more engineers," said Sands, an engineer himself, who contributed to the development of LED lighting.
 Leah Jamieson, the John A. Edwardson Dean of Engineering, said faculty growth hasn't kept up with other growth in the college. "From fall 2006 to fall 2011, our undergraduate enrollment grew by 17 percent; our graduate enrollment by 28 percent; and our research enterprise, as measured by annual research expenditures, by 79 percent.
 During that same time, faculty growth was 6 percent," she said. "As a result, we have developed a five-year plan for strategic growth that will add up to 107 faculty members.
" With the additional faculty, undergraduate enrollment will grow by almost 10 percent to more than 7,750 and graduate enrollment will grow by 750 to 3,500.
 "We will help meet the need for more engineers while giving students the education they need to succeed in well-paying and challenging jobs," Jamieson said.
 "A critical sustainable competitive advantage for a company or a country is its technology base, and I applaud Purdue University and its leadership's commitment to educating more world-class engineers," he said.
 The National Science Foundation says that jobs in engineering and science pay more, even when compared to jobs requiring similar amounts of education and experience.
 NSF said that half of workers in engineering and science jobs earned at least $73,290 in 2010, more than double the $33,840 median income of the total U.S.
 workforce. "Faculty growth of this magnitude has the potential to shape how we educate our students, particularly in developing hands-on, team-oriented classes," she said.
 "We know from our graduates and from our industry partners that in the real world, engineers work in teams. With a team-based classroom approach - which a lower faculty-to-student ratio will allow - our graduates are better prepared to make the transition from school to career.
" The growth also has potential to shape how the college connects with the world through research, engagement, economic development, K-12 outreach, entrepreneurship, partnerships and global activities, Jamieson said.
 "With more research and outreach, Purdue will be able to continue the valuable work it does in addressing the enormous global challenges we face, from cures for diseases to alternative fuels to safer buildings," she said.
 Jamieson said details on disciplines and areas that would see an increase in the number of faculty are still to be worked out, but two areas seem logical for additions:
 * Next May, the college will award its first bachelor's degrees in environmental and ecological engineering. EEE is a division within the College of Engineering, which means it draws faculty from throughout the college.
 "This is a perfect example of how we are merging traditional disciplines with newer ones that tackle modern challenges head on," Jamieson said.
 She also noted that growth in jobs in environmental and ecological engineering is second only to biomedical engineering. * The university already is in the process of hiring in the area of integrated imaging, which combines sensor science, information processing and computer systems.
 The imaging is used in medical diagnosis, remote sensing and nanotechnology, among others. Disciplines involved are electrical and computer engineering, biomedical engineering, biological sciences and chemistry.
 "Hiring a cluster of faculty from the different colleges and schools will pull it all together for advances that can't be done in a single discipline alone," Jamieson said.
 She said funding for the additional faculty will come from the university provost's office, revenue from a fee that engineering students pay, redirecting funds within the college, and from fund-raising among alumni and friends of the college.
 Note to Journalists: Broadcast reporters interested in a video clip of Dean Leah Jamieson can contact Judith Austin, Purdue News Service, at 
jbaustin@purdue.edu. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-to-increase-marked-bicycle-routes-on-west-lafayette-campus.html
<Content> Purdue President Daniels creates Bicycle Task Force
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – More than one mile of marked bicycle routes will be added to the north academic area of the West Lafayette campus thanks to a Bicycle Task Force established by President Mitch Daniels earlier this month.
 These new marked bicycle routes represent a 58 percent increase in the total distance of marked campus routes and double the distance of marked routes available in the north academic campus area.
 The Bicycle Task Force is made up of representatives from Physical Facilities, Environmental Health and Public Safety, Purdue Student Government, Administrative and Professional Staff Advisory Committee, Clerical and Service Staff Advisory Committee, University Housing, Student Legal Services Office, Physical and Capital Planning, University Senate, and University Resources Policy Committee.
 Chaired by Michael B. Cline, vice president for physical facilities, the task force was charged by Daniels with increasing the convenience of bicycling on campus, with a primary focus on bicyclist, motorist and pedestrian safety.
 "One of the keys to bicycle safety on campus is to carefully manage how bicycle, motorized vehicle and pedestrian traffic interact on a daily basis," said Carol Shelby, senior director of environmental health and public safety.
 "By increasing the amount of marked bicycle routes on campus, we're dedicating specific areas for bicycle use and enhancing the safety of traffic flow in the north academic campus area.
" Crews will begin marking the additional bicycle routes this weekend, focusing on the following areas in the north academic campus:
 Work will continue over the next two weeks, weather dependent, and may result in small disruptions and landscaping relocations. 
In addition to the increase in marked bicycle routes on campus, the Bicycle Task Force has recommended the development of a campus bicycle website to include, among other things, a map of bicycle routes, parking locations and maintenance stations.
 The Bicycle Task Force will continue its work through the winter, developing additional recommendations for the future of bicycle infrastructure on the West Lafayette campus.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/purdue-to-lead-faa-center-on-general-aviation.html
<Content> Purdue to lead FAA center on general aviation
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University has been chosen as a lead institution for a new Federal Aviation Administration Air Transportation Center of Excellence for general aviation.
 The Center of Excellence Partnership to Enhance General Aviation Safety, Accessibility and Sustainability (PEGASAS) will focus research and testing efforts on safety, accessibility and sustainability to enhance the future of general aviation.
 "The United States has the largest and most diverse general aviation community in the world, with more than 300,000 aircraft registered to fly through American skies," Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in a statement.
 "This innovative partnership with academia and industry will help us take general aviation safety to the next level." Purdue's effort will involve the colleges of Engineering and Technology, in particular the schools of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Mechanical Engineering and the Department of Aviation Technology.
 "Purdue has world-class engineering and world-class aviation programs," said William Crossley, Purdue professor of aeronautics and astronautics and director of the PEGASAS center.
 "That makes us especially well prepared to address many of the issues facing general aviation." The FAA said PEGASAS research and development efforts would cover a broad spectrum of general aviation safety issues, including airport technology, propulsion and structures, airworthiness, flight safety, fire safety, human factors, system safety management, and weather.
 "While we don't have specific areas assigned yet, Purdue's breadth and depth of expertise in engineering and aviation will position us to work on any of the issues," Crossley said.
 Also helping lead the Purdue effort will be Karen Marais, assistant professor of aeronautics and astronautics, who will work on effective communication among the researchers and their FAA colleagues, and John Young, a professor of aviation technology, who will organize PEGASAS education and technology-transfer activities.
 Leading PEGASAS along with Purdue will be Ohio State University and Georgia Institute of Technology. The core team also will include Florida Institute of Technology and Iowa State and Texas A&M universities.
 Affiliate members include Arizona State, Florida A&M, Hampton, Kent State, North Carolina A&T State, Oklahoma State, Southern Illinois (Carbondale), Tufts and Western Michigan universities and University of Minnesota, Duluth.
 The PEGASAS university members have nationally recognized collegiate flight education programs, and three of the core - Purdue, Ohio State and Texas A&M - own and operate their own airports, the FAA said.
 PEGASAS industry and organizational partners include GE Aviation; Battelle Memorial Institute; NetJets Inc.; Cessna; Gulfstream; Piper; Raytheon; Rockwell Collins; Cirrus; Flight Safety Foundation; Guardian Mobility; Harris Corporation; Jet Aviva; NextGen AeroSciences; Nelson Consulting; Rolls-Royce; The Spectrum Group; Take Flight Solutions; Woolpert; the Flight Deck Display Research Laboratory at NASA Ames; Columbus Regional, South Bend and Fort Wayne airports; Indiana, Florida, Georgia and Iowa transportation departments; the National Business Aviation Association; the National Intercollegiate Flying Association; and Ohio Aerospace Institute.
 These non-federal affiliates will provide matching contributions to help offset the FAA's investment. PEGASAS will engage both graduate-level and undergraduate students in its research activities, the FAA said.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-traffic-website-aims-to-help-travelers-enter-and-exit-stadium-area-parking-easily,-find-nearby-hotels.html
<Content> Purdue traffic website aims to help travelers enter and exit stadium-area parking easily, find nearby hotels
 Purdue traffic website aims to help travelers enter and exit stadium-area parking easily, find nearby hotels WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - Fans traveling to Saturday's (Oct. 12) Big Ten football game at Ross-Ade Stadium between Purdue and visiting Nebraska can use a website to help them navigate game-day traffic around campus and back to local hotels.
 The recently developed website, http://tinyurl.com/purduefbparking, shows where parking lots are located and what suggested routes to take exiting the campus area from all of the parking lots operated by Purdue.
 In addition to the maps, a handout has been created that will show guests and visitors where public parking is available on Purdue's campus.
 The handout also is online at http://tinyurl.com/purduepubliclots. QR Codes on these handouts can be scanned with a smart phone to find suggested routes from campus to Indianapolis, Chicago, Delphi, or the hotels on South Street in Lafayette.
 "The routes plan will help traffic flow in all directions," Purdue police Chief John Cox said. "Fans need to understand while these routes are designed to promote efficient traffic flow, emergency situations such as a traffic crash, medical emergency or bad weather may cause police to reroute postgame traffic away from the preferred routes.
" In addition to the website, there will be electronic message boards directing motorists to the correct lanes and providing guidance at intersections where police are directing traffic.
 Purdue Athletics and Purdue police collaborated with Purdue Police; Purdue Physical Facilities; Purdue Office of Public Affairs; and Darcy Bullock, professor of civil engineering and director of the Joint Transportation Research Program, to develop the strategies.
 Source: John Cox, 765-494-8221, jkcox@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-treasure-the-deans-bible-to-get-home-in-university-archives.html
<Content> Purdue treasure 'The Deans' Bible' to get home in university archives
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A hand-me-down that has spanned more than 100 years, eight deans and is a Purdue University tradition will soon be open book to the masses.
 The Deans' Bible, passed from one Purdue women's dean to another over the course of generations, will become part of the university Libraries' Division of Archives and Special Collections.
 During a 4 p.m.invitation-only ceremony Monday (June 17), Danita Brown, Purdue's dean of students since 2011 and before that associate dean, who has accepted the dean's position at the University of Minnesota, will present the treasure.
 Sammie Morris, head of the Division of Archives and Special Collections, will accept it, and the artifact will become part of the Susan Bulkeley Butler Women's Archives.
 The presentation will take place in the Humanities, Social Science and Education Library's Periodicals Room. "Purdue's history is blended with women who have made significant and changing impacts not only on this university but in the world," Morris said.
 "The Deans' Bible adds to an archival collection that pays tribute to these deans who were and are pioneers, role models and world-class educators.
" The Deans' Bible is an actual Christian Bible that is traditionally passed from the outgoing dean of women/dean of students to that person's successor.
 It represents the legacy chain dating back to Carolyn Shoemaker, Purdue's first Dean of Women in 1913. The Deans' Bible has served as a symbol of the passing of the torch of leadership and as an artifact embodying the strong ties of mentoring and friendship shared between each of the deans, Morris said.
 The Deans' Bible includes a favorite Bible verse from each of its holders and often a letter of encouragement or inspiration to their successors.
 Past carriers, in addition to Shoemaker and Brown, include former deans Dorothy C. Stratton, who became Purdue's first full-time dean of women in 1933; Helen B.
 Schleman; M. Beverley Stone, Purdue's first dean of students after the consolidation of the Office of the Dean of Men and Dean of Women in 1974; Barbara I.
 Cook; Betty Nelson; and Tony Hawkins. It was Nelson, the Dean of Students from 1987-96 and a longtime supporter of Purdue Libraries and the Bulkeley Butler Women's Archives, who helped facilitate the addition of the Deans' Bible to the archives so that it lives in history.
 Local author Angie Klink is writing a book, "The Deans' Bible," which profiles the women. The book will be published by Purdue University Press and advance sales are set to begin in August.
 The publish date is scheduled for the spring.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-trustees-approve-faculty-promotions.html
<Content> Purdue trustees approve faculty promotions
 FORT WAYNE, Ind. - Purdue University's Board of Trustees on Friday (April 5) approved faculty promotions. The following promotions are effective with the 2013-14 academic year:
 Nipul H. Patel, associate professor of computer and information technology </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-trustees-approve-new-music-hall,-renovations-to-academic-and-living-spaces.html
<Content> Purdue trustees approve new music hall, renovations to academic and living spaces
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The Purdue University Board of Trustees on Friday (May 10) officially named a planned facility to house Purdue Musical Organizations
 and approved a construction contract for the building. The PMO building will be named Ralph and Bettye Bailey Hall in honor of a $4.5 million gift from the couple to support its construction.
 Ralph Bailey is a 1949 mechanical engineering alumnus, and both have been longtime supporters of the university and PMO. The trustees approved a $4.04 million contract with Kettlehut Construction Co.
 of Lafayette, Ind., to build the $7.6 million Bailey Hall. Construction on the 15,300-square-foot building, to be located on Grant Street across from Knoy Hall, is scheduled to begin this summer, with completion slated for summer or fall of 2014.
 Bailey Hall will be a permanent home to six chorale groups and a hand bell choir and will offer easily accessible, well-lit and acoustically sound space to rehearse, record and study.
 "Bailey Hall will raise awareness of PMO programs and will boost recruitment efforts," said PMO director William Griffel. "PMO's new home will provide a space specifically designed to meet the practice needs of our ensembles and will be a location to showcase our rich history and traditions.
" PMO has been housed since 1940 in several floors of the Elliott Hall of Music. Its new home will be built entirely with gift funds.
 On Thursday (May 9) the board's Physical Facilities Committee approved renovations to the Biochemistry Annex and residence hall restrooms.
 The committee approved a resolution to hire URS Corp. of Indianapolis to plan the renovation of laboratories on the Biochemistry Annex's third floor to bring them up to current research standards.
 The space will be reconfigured to be more open and flexible. Existing mechanical systems will be replaced or upgraded as needed, with an eye toward future expansion.
 Planning for the $4 million project, which will be funded by university repair and rehabilitation funds, will include an energy efficiency plan for the entire annex.
 The committee also approved the $4.8 million Phase III renovations to Harrison Residence Hall, which will reconfigure and renovate restrooms on floors one through eight in the north tower.
 The design/build approval gives University Residences the authority to use its departmental funds generated from user fees to move forward on the project.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-trustees-establish-metrics-for-daniels-at-risk-pay.html
<Content> Purdue trustees establish metrics for Daniels' at-risk pay
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — When President Mitch Daniels came to Purdue, he requested trustees lower his base pay and designate 30 percent of that money as "at-risk," meaning he would have to meet certain goals in order to earn any portion of those funds.
 On Friday (Sept. 27) the university's trustees approved the set of weighted goals that will be used to determine how much of that at-risk pay Daniels could earn annually.
 The performance metrics fall into five broad categories: four- and six-year graduation rates, reduction of student debt, fundraising, academic excellence, and demonstrated student outcomes in knowledge and understanding.
 "All of these measures directly impact students' ability to have affordable access to Purdue and to receive a quality education once they arrive here," said Thomas Spurgeon, chairman of the Board of Trustees.
 "There are only two universities of which we are aware that compensate their presidents in a similar way. It sends a powerful message to parents and Purdue supporters that President Daniels is willing to tie his compensation to the success of our students and the university as a whole.
" Trustees initially offered Daniels a salary of $555,000, which Daniels requested be lowered to $546,000, with $126,000 being placed at-risk.
 Spurgeon said trustees will annually evaluate the president's performance relative to the weighted goals to calculate how much of the at-risk pay Daniels might receive and that a perfect score would be difficult to achieve in any given year.
 For 2013-14, the fixed portion of the president's pay will remain at $420,000 since Daniels elected to waive eligibility for a university-wide 1 percent pay increase and instead allocate that money to the university's Student Affordability and Accessibility Fund.
 "Each year the president's salary starts back at the base level, and then we will determine what portion of the at-risk funds should be awarded based on measurable progress in each of these areas," Spurgeon said.
 "The critical part of this process was examining a variety of possible metrics, deciding which ones measure things that matter, coming up with a way to meaningfully measure progress for each goal, and then deciding what weight to assign to those goals.
" According to the most recent figures available, Daniels' base salary ranks ninth among base salaries for Big Ten public university presidents (data for Pennsylvania State University was not available).
 "Tying my pay to these goals allows Purdue to make a strong statement about what is important and about the need for us all to be responsible for results," Daniels said.
 "Higher education is entering a new era of affordability and accountability, and we want Purdue to be a national leader in these areas.
" Mitch Daniels, president@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-trustees-ok-wang-hall-leases.html
<Content> Purdue trustees OK Wang Hall leases
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University's Board of Trustees on Friday (July 19) approved two leases of space in Seng-Liang Wang Hall.
 The space in Wang Hall, now under construction, would be leased through Purdue Research Foundation. The leases are contingent upon state approval.
 The first lease is for up to 58,996 square feet on the third and fourth floors to accommodate office and lab space for new College of Engineering faculty and staff and to temporarily relocate faculty, graduate students and staff during renovations of several engineering buildings.
 The hires and renovations are related to the college's strategic growth plan. The second lease is for up to 21,251 square feet on the second floor.
 The space will be used for the Engineering Professional Education program, currently in Potter Engineering Center, and for the College of Technology's Center for Professional Studies in Technology and Applied Research, currently in the Engineering Administration Building.
 PRF is building the 147,000-square-foot Wang Hall just north of the Northwestern Avenue Parking Garage. It is primarily designed to provide laboratories, offices, conference rooms and support facilities for the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering.
 It also will have retail space managed by PRF. It is named after the father of Purdue alumnus Patrick Wang, chairman and CEO of Johnson Electric in Hong Kong.
 Sources: James Almond, senior vice president for business services, assistant treasurer, 765-494-9706, jsalmond@purdue.edu Michael Cline, vice president for physical facilities, 
mbcline@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-university-development,-investment-offices-to-transfer-to-purdue-research-foundation.html
<Content> Purdue University development, investment offices to transfer to Purdue Research Foundation
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – The Executive Committee of Purdue University's Board of Trustees on Friday (Nov. 1) approved the transfer of its fundraising and investment offices to Purdue Research Foundation.
 The move, which becomes effective Jan. 1, puts Purdue in alignment with its peer institutions. Currently, nine schools out of 14 in the Big Ten Conference have separate fundraising foundations.
 In Indiana, the other large public schools - Indiana University, Ball State, Indiana State and Ivy Tech - have foundations to support development activities.
 The decision follows a review by Purdue University and Purdue Research Foundation conducted over the past several months with a goal to enhance the foundation's role as a supporting organization for Purdue.
 The study found that the move provides: * An avenue to support long-term sustainability because one organization will now solicit, process and steward all gifts.
 Currently, gifts such as real estate involve a thorough, time-intensive process through the foundation and the university. The move of fundraising to the foundation will simplify that process.
 * Potential efficiencies through administrative synergies and streamlining of processes within the University Development Office and the Office of Investments.
 * Positive outcomes that include the consolidation of the development and investment functions to create a singular focus on raising funds and maximizing returns on investments.
 The 160-plus people working in the Purdue development and investment offices will be able to transfer their length of service and equivalent benefits to the Purdue Research Foundation.
 The move is consistent with other current initiatives of the foundation, which is a private, nonprofit entity created to advance the mission of Purdue.
 Established in 1930, the foundation accepts gifts, administers trusts, funds scholarships and grants, and acquires property on behalf of Purdue.
 Services provided by the foundation benefit the university's academic endeavors and support economic development initiatives. The foundation manages the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization, which operates one of the most comprehensive technology transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 The foundation oversees the Purdue Research Park, which is the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 In other business, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Trustees, ratified the appointment of Amy Noah as vice president for development.
 She will continue to serve in that role with the Purdue Research Foundation after the Jan. 1, 2014, transition. Similarly, Scott Seidle will transfer to PRF with the Office of Investments and continue to serve as chief investment officer.
 Media contacts: Shelley Triol, Purdue University assistant vice president for external relations, 765-496-2644, striol@purdue.edu
 Cynthia Sequin, Purdue Research Foundation director of marketing and communications, 765-413-6031, casequin@prf.org </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-university-libraries-launches-new,-open-access-resource-website.html
<Content> Purdue University Libraries launches new, open access resource website
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - In association with Open Access Week - Oct. 21-27, Purdue University Libraries has launched a new, open access website with key resources, timely information and university expertise.
 The website is located at: http://www.lib.purdue.edu/openaccess Open Access describes the online, free-of-charge, public access to the scholarly journal literature (in particular) that has until very recently been only available to the reader through subscriptions or affiliation with an institution that pays subscription fees.
 By changing the way in which the publication is funded, open access has the potential to maximize research investments, increase the exposure and use of published research, facilitate the ability to conduct research across available literature, and enhance the overall advancement of scholarship.
 Research funding agencies, academic institutions, researchers and scientists, teachers, students, and members of the general public are supporting a move toward open access in increasing numbers every year.
 The Open Access at Purdue website provides news and resources about the open access movement. Most importantly, it also provides easy workflows through which members of the Purdue community can make their work open to others with assistance from the Libraries.
 Contacts: Dave Scherer, scholarly repository specialist, Purdue e-Pubs, 765-494-8511, dscherer@purdue.edu Donna Ferullo, director, Purdue University Copyright Office, 765-496-3864, 
ferullo@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdue-university-libraries-to-celebrate-gis-day-with-activities.html
<Content> Purdue University Libraries to celebrate GIS Day with activities
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University will host several events for "GIS Day at Purdue: Geospatial Data is Everywhere" on Nov.
 6. GIS Day is a global celebration of geospatial research and GIS, which uses a collection of software applications, GPS receivers and data sensors to combine maps and statistical data in a digital mapping environment to answer research questions.
 Activities including talks, demonstrations, graduate student presentations and a poster session will be held 8:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.
 in Stewart Center, Room 306. The events are free and open to the public. Matt Hutchinson, research scientist, geospatial intelligence with Woolpert, Inc.
, will give the morning keynote address at 11 a.m. in Stewart Center, Room 302 on "Big Data GIS: Unmanned Aerial Vehicles." Randall Raymond, geospatial data information specialist, Office of Research, Evaluation, Assessment and Accountability, will present the afternoon keynote address at 2 p.m.
 in Stewart Center, Room 302. His discussion is titled “Pathways to GIS Careers: A bring your laptop, hands-on, ArcGIS Online Experience.
” Students and faculty also will learn more about the GIS resources (including software, servers, virtual and local classes) available to them at Purdue.
 In addition, a hands-on, ground-penetrating radar demonstration will take place on the Purdue Mall. The complete schedule for GIS Day is available at 
http://stemedhub.org/groups/2013gisday/college GIS Day is sponsored by the Office of the Provost, Office of the Vice President for Research, the college of Agriculture, Science, Education, and Technology, and Purdue University Libraries GIS Department.
 Source: Benjamin Branch, Purdue University Libraries GIS Department, bbranch@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdue-university-student-health-center-selects-director.html
<Content> Purdue University Student Health Center selects director
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Gail A. Walenga, assistant vice president for student affairs at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, will become the Purdue University Student Health Center's director, effective Friday (Feb.
 1). Walenga replaces James Westman, who had served as the center's director for 22 years before retiring in 2012. Sarah Sayger had been serving as interim director since his retirement and will move back to her role as medical director and assistant health center director.
 Walenga, who was selected in a national search, brings several years of medical experience, much of which was spent in administrative capacities, and also has been involved in academic settings.
 She has been assistant vice president for student affairs at Miami University since 2008, with administrative oversight in student health and counseling service, the Office of Student Wellness, and the women's center on campus.
 Before that, she had worked at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles since 1998, first as director of pediatrics and medical genetics, then as pediatric nursing health system manager and director of ambulatory care services.
 She also previously worked at Shriners Hospital for Children in Los Angeles in various administrative roles, including as interim administrator, and was an adjunct associate professor in the School of Education at the University of Southern California from 1984-2004.
 "Dr. Walenga’s breadth and depth of experience will be extremely valuable in taking the Purdue University Student Health Center
 and all of its services to the next level of excellence," said Melissa Exum, Purdue vice president for student affairs. "She is committed to the holistic development of all students' health and welfare.
 Dr. Walenga is very passionate about her work, and I am very excited to have her on our team." Purdue's center, known as PUSH, offers affordable health care, mental health services and wellness education services to the nearly 40,000 students and university community on the West Lafayette campus.
 The center provides allergy care and immunization, a laboratory, physical therapy, prescription assistance, radiology, sports medicine, urgent care, and a women's clinic.
 Its medical clinic is open 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. each weekday, and its urgent care is open 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. weekdays and 10 a.m.
 to 6 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays. The center also offers an after-hours hotline that allows students to speak with a registered nurse or master level clinician.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-veterinary-medicine-launches-poultry-medicine-residency.html
<Content> Purdue Veterinary Medicine launches poultry medicine residency
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Thanks to an anonymous donor, the Purdue University College of Veterinary Medicine now offers a fully endowed teaching program in poultry medicine.
 The program supports one or more graduate students in a training and residency program in the college's Department of Comparative Pathobiology.
 The program helps meet a need for poultry veterinarians, said Pat Wakenell, associate professor of avian diagnostics at Purdue and co-head of avian diagnostics at the Indiana Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory.
 "With the rise in popularity of the general public running hobby farms, there is a lack of knowledge and skills needed to address the health and wellness of poultry and other livestock," Wakenell said.
 She said the program helps provide a solution by integrating poultry medicine into the block schedule for fourth-year doctor of veterinary medicine students.
 Three 2012 Purdue DVM graduates went on to pursue jobs in the field. In addition, the residency program will provide training in all major areas of an active poultry medicine practice such as diagnostic pathology and farm visits, Wakenell said.
 It also incorporates a training curriculum designed to lead to board certification in either the American College of Veterinary Pathologists or the American College of Poultry Veterinarians.
 Purdue's first resident in the program, Yuko Sato, a 2012 doctor of veterinary medicine graduate, started the program in August 2012 and plans to continue for three years.
 Wakenell said the program plans to have a second resident start in July. "One of the goals is to graduate a poultry veterinarian every year," Wakenell said.
 "We've had great support from the Indiana State Poultry Association, which is providing financial assistance with travel for residents who are working with clients around the state.
 We're seeking additional private fundraising to further grow the endowed teaching program." Kevin Doerr, director of public affairs for College of Veterinary Medicine 765-494-8216, 
doerrkr@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdue-veterinary-medicine-professor-receives-grant-to-research-new-bladder-cancer-therapy-to-help-dogs,-people.html
<Content> Purdue veterinary medicine professor receives grant to research new bladder cancer therapy to help dogs, people
 Purdue veterinary medicine professor receives grant to research new bladder cancer therapy to help dogs, people WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 - Deborah Knapp, the Dolores L. McCall Professor of Comparative Oncology at Purdue University, has received a grant from the Animal Cancer Foundation
 for a two-year study on bladder cancer therapy. The study is designed to develop a new drug therapy for both dogs and people with a deadly form of bladder cancer.
 Invasive urinary bladder cancer, or more specifically invasive transitional cell carcinoma (InvTCC), kills more than 14,000 people and an estimated 20,000 dogs annually in the United States, according to the ACF.
 "Most deaths from InvTCC are due to non-resectable cancer that has become resistant to chemotherapy," said Knapp, who is in the Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences and also is co-director of the Purdue Comparative Oncology Program.
 "Better drugs to treat InvTCC are crucially needed." Canine and human InvTCC have previously been shown to have very similar cellular and molecular features, biologic behavior including sites and frequency of metastasis, and response to therapy, Knapp said.
 Dogs with InvTCC are a good model for the same cancer in people, and new breakthroughs in canine studies can benefit dogs and, potentially, humans.
 The study, which will be aided by the $50,000 ACF grant and support from Endocyte in West Lafayette, Ind., will focus on a new drug strategy that is expected to transform InvTCC treatment by safely delivering a drug, tubulysin B, which has extremely potent anti-tumor effects, selectively to the cancer cells by conjugating the drug to folate.
 Studies in the laboratory of Phillip Low, Purdue's Ralph C. Corley Distinguished Professor of Chemistry, have shown that specific cancers take up much higher amounts of folate than normal cells, allowing preferential delivery of folate-drug conjugates to the cancer.
 Knapp and Low have worked together to apply this strategy to bladder cancer. Knapp said a multidisciplinary team with expertise in veterinary and human medical oncology, bladder cancer, imaging and pathology, and folate uptake in cancer has been assembled to complete the study.
 Kevin Doerr, public affairs director for the College of Veterinary Medicine, 765-494-8216, doerrkr@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdue-wine-grape-series-delves-into-issue-of-herbicide-drift.html
<Content> Purdue wine grape series delves into issue of herbicide drift
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University online series on Indiana grapes and wines continues this week with a report examining the issue of herbicide drift and how it can affect vineyards.
 Part 2 of "Through the Grapevine," produced by the Department of Agricultural Communication, appears on the website of the Purdue publication "Agricultures" at 
https://ag.purdue.edu/agricultures/Pages/ThroughTheGrapevine/02-Drift.aspx. This week's report notes that drift poses a significant threat to grape growers, particularly in the Midwest where vineyards often are surrounded by corn and soybean fields that are sprayed with herbicides to control weeds.
 In the report, Larry Pampel, co-owner of Whyte Horse Winery in Monticello, Ind., says the loss of a vine is especially critical because of the time it takes to raise a fruit-bearing grapevine.
 "It's not like a row crop that you can replant and harvest the next year," he says. "If you lose a vine, you're looking at three to four years to recovery.
" To help minimize the potential for drift, the report notes that growers of specialty crops can list their fields on the online registry 
DriftWatch, developed at Purdue. Herbicide applicators use the maps on the site to look for sensitive areas before spraying. Leighanne Hahn, the website's director of operations, says the agricultural community has accepted DriftWatch tools readily.
 "Our users tell us that it works," she says in the report. "As the interaction between row-crop farmers and growers of specialty crops increases, mutual respect is going to continue to develop.
 Everybody's going to find ways to work together."</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdues-2012-highlights-captured-on-video.html
<Content> Purdue's 2012 highlights captured on video
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – The major happenings at Purdue University during 2012 are highlighted in the 58th edition of the Purdue Newsreel, called "The New Faces of Purdue.
" The 13-minute program, produced by the Creative Services unit of the Office of Marketing and Media, can be viewed on the Purdue YouTube channel at 
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QrU3UT-HTxc, or is available from the Purdue Undergraduate Library. The video is sponsored by the Purdue Alumni Association and is shown to Purdue alumni clubs around the world.
 The 2012 newsreel was produced and directed by Ray Cubberley, senior broadcast producer in marketing and media. The program is narrated by Tim Newton, director of external relations for Purdue's Krannert School of Management.
 A DVD of the newsreel can be purchased from the Purdue Alumni Association for $20, which includes shipping. Direct purchase inquiries to Purdue Alumni Association, Dick and Sandy Dauch Alumni Center, Attn: Chad Johnson, 403 Wood St.
, West Lafayette, IN 47907-2007 - telephone 765-494-2603. Highlights in the 2012 newsreel include: the hiring of Mitch Daniels as Purdue's 12th president; the naming of Tim Sands as acting president until Daniels began his term; the retirement of 11th president France Córdova; the rededication of the Recreational Sports Center and its renaming in Córdova's honor; the memorial service for Neil Armstrong; events involving two other Purdue astronauts; anniversary celebrations for WBAA, Discovery Park and the President's Council; growth in engineering; plans for a trimester calendar; Grand prix; Boiler Gold Rush; Homecoming; an Olympic gold medal for diver David Boudia; a Big Ten championship for baseball; football's return to a bowl game in Texas; the hiring of a new football coach; highlights from men's and women's basketball and volleyball; music from the Glee Club, Purduettes and Marching Band; and a variety of Purdue Alumni Association events.
 Source: Ray Cubberley, 765-494-2075, rcubberley@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdues-black-cultural-center-to-commemorate-50th-anniversary-of-march-on-washington.html
<Content> Purdue's Black Cultural Center to commemorate 50th anniversary of March on Washington
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — In commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, the Purdue University Black Cultural Center
 will show the "Eyes on the Prize" series on Wednesday (Aug. 28), starting at 8:30 a.m. and continuing throughout the day in the BCC student lounge area.
 At 5 p.m., Purdue graduate student Kadari Watson Taylor will share personal reflections on her trip to Washington, D.C., where thousands of people gathered on Saturday (Aug.
 24) for a daylong commemoration of Wednesday's 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. "Eyes on the Prize" is an award-winning, 14-hour television series produced by
 Blackside Inc., and narrated by Julian Bond. Through interviews and historical film footage, the series covers all of the major events of the civil rights movement from 1954-85.
 Series topics range from the Montgomery bus boycott in 1954 to the Voting Rights Act in 1965; from community power in schools to "Black Power" in the streets; from early acts of individual courage to the growth of a mass movement and its eventual split into factions.
 The series won six Emmys, an Academy Award nomination, the George Foster Peabody Award and the top DuPont-Columbia award for excellence in broadcast journalism.
 BCC's fall theme is Gullah Folklore. Research tour participants will stay at the historic Penn Center on St Helena Island where Dr.
 Martin Luther King drafted his famous I Have A Dream speech. Source: Renee Thomas, Purdue University Black Cultural Center director, 765-494-3091, 
rathomas@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdues-brian-lamb-school-to-benefit-from-gift-valued-at-3-million.html
<Content> Purdue's Brian Lamb School to benefit from gift valued at $3 million
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University's Brian Lamb School of Communication has received a $2 million gift from an anonymous donor that will be used for faculty, students and school programs.
 "This donation will benefit every aspect of the Lamb School - its faculty, its students and its programs," said Purdue President Mitch Daniels.
 "And the donor has chosen two options that will allow Purdue to add funding, increasing the value of an already-substantial gift.
" "We knew from the beginning that securing funding to support the Lamb School's strategic vision would be key to its success," said Irwin Weiser, Justin S.
 Morrill Dean of the College of Liberal Arts. "This gift generously supports that goal." * $750,000 to create the C-SPAN Chair for a clinical professor with a specialization in political communication, social communication, media and networks, emerging technologies, or civic communication/engagement.
 This money will be matched by an equal amount though Purdue's Faculty Excellence Challenge Match, designed to endow new professorships.
 * $250,000 to create the Lamb Scholars, providing undergraduate scholarships for Indiana students. This money will be matched by an equal amount through the Indiana Challenge Match, designed to help Purdue offer financial aid to Indiana students.
 * $1 million in unrestricted funds to be used by the Lamb School in pursuit of its strategic objectives. A focus will be on engagement opportunities and co-curricular experiences, such as those currently offered by Project Impact as well as projects that promote the use of the C-SPAN Archives in research and teaching.
 Project Impact is an experiential learning initiative in which students produce forums with historians, government officials, journalists, media executives and successful practitioners in their fields of interest.
 "We in the Lamb School are excited about the initiatives this gift will help bring about," said Steven Wilson, interim head of the school.
 "We're gratified to have such a strong show of external support for our work and mission." Brian Lamb earned his bachelor's degree in speech from Purdue in 1963 and received an honorary doctorate in 1986.
 He founded C-SPAN - Cable-Satellite Public Affairs Network - in 1977, and the network's initial telecasts of the U.S. House of Representatives began in 1979.
 Today there are three C-SPAN networks offering around-the-clock coverage of the political process. In 1987 Lamb designated Purdue as the home of the C-SPAN Archives, which records, indexes and archives all C-SPAN programming for historical, educational and research uses.
 The archives, operated and funded by C-SPAN, are located in the Purdue Research Park. Steven Wilson, 765-494-0094, wilson25@purdue.edu
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/purdues-emerging-innovations-fund-invests-250,000-in-two-life-sciences-companies.html
<Content> Purdue's Emerging Innovations Fund invests $250,000 in two life sciences companies
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Two life sciences companies that are commercializing Purdue University innovations can receive up to $250,000 in investments from the Emerging Innovations Fund, an evergreen fund created to accelerate the commercialization of early-stage discoveries.
 Medtric Biotech LLC received $100,000 and Microfluidic Innovations LLC received $75,000 with a potential to receive an additional $75,000 if certain performance milestones are met.
 The Emerging Innovations Fund is the source of investment funds that are recommended by graduate and undergraduate Purdue students in the Student Managed Venture Fund, an experiential learning course that involves a partnership between the Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship and the Purdue Research Foundation. "The Emerging Innovations Fund provides an integrated approach to research and innovation by bridging the gap between a startup's formation and third-party financing," said Elizabeth Hart-Wells, assistant vice president and director of the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization.
 "In this way, the fund provides critical support for entrepreneurs who are finalizing the development of a technology and are ready to move an innovation to the public.
" Richard Cosier, the Avrum and Joyce Gray Director of the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, said this round of awards shows how Purdue students are proving their abilities at developing companies from concept to product.
 "Medtric Biotech's officers include current Purdue students and recent alumni, and the CEO of Microfluidic Innovations also is a Purdue alumnus," Cosier said.
 "These students and alumni are proof that the university can strengthen the skills of entrepreneurs as they build and develop companies that can have a positive impact on lives around the world.
" Medtric Biotech, based in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette, has developed patent-pending products that fight infection and enhance the wound-healing process.
 Sean Connell, president and COO, said the company is actively seeking strategic partners to access over-the-counter and health-and-beauty markets.
 "Medtric's antimicrobial technology can potentially target a diverse group of market opportunities ranging from general disinfectants in the household to advanced wound dressings in the clinic.
 Currently, we're looking for the right partners to help us enter these markets," he said. "The Emerging Innovations Fund is a tremendous help for our development because now we can finalize testing and begin manufacturing our products.
" Microfluidic Innovations has developed a system to help researchers perform life science assays at microfluidic, or sub-millimeter, scale where experiments can be conducted faster, less expensively and with higher precision.
 The system is programmable, which allows researchers to control the experiments they conduct. CEO Ahmed Amin said the system offers variable volume/variable ratio mixing, incubation, automatic fluid routing and on-chip pumping.
 The system has been used for diverse assays such as glucose level detection, enzyme kinetics research, particle sorting, bacteria culturing and cancer drug efficacy.
 It also is compatible with optical detection devices. "Microfluidic Innovations is leading a paradigm shift in the way assay development is conducted.
 Our programmable AssayMark system eliminates the time consuming and expensive design-fabricate-test cycles incurred by today's microfluidic assay development methods and replaces it with simple programming instructions that run on a highly integrated microfluidic chip," he said.
 "We are fortunate to receive the EIF investment, which will advance our entry into the commercial and academic markets and help us achieve our ultimate goals of accelerating the preclinical drug discovery process and bringing new diagnostic tests to the market.
" In 2008 Purdue Research Foundation introduced the Emerging Innovations Fund, an integrated approach to research innovation, development and commercialization.
 The Emerging Innovations Fund is a self-sustaining initiative that brings together ideas, management and money to accelerate the commercialization of early stage technologies in the Purdue community.
 Medtric aims to provide the measurable difference by delivering clinically robust and economically sensible wound-care solutions.
 Microfluidic Innovations aims to provide a flexible, automated, software-programmable, multi-purpose lab-on-a-chip platform for scientists and researchers who are developing new microfluidic assays in drug discovery, genomics, proteomics and cell-based research.
 Purdue Research Foundation is a private, nonprofit foundation created to advance the mission of Purdue University. The foundation accepts gifts; administers trusts; funds research, scholarships and grants; acquires property; and negotiates research contracts on behalf of Purdue.
 In the 1990s, the foundation was charged with helping the university in the realm of economic development. The Purdue Research Foundation oversees the Purdue Research Park, which is the largest university-affiliated business incubator in the country.
 In addition to the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette, the foundation has established technology parks in other locations around Indiana including Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Ahmed Amin, ahmed@microfluidicinnovations.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdues-emerging-innovations-fund-sets-aug.-31-application-deadline.html
<Content> Purdue's Emerging Innovations Fund sets Aug. 31 application deadline
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Startups that have licensed innovations developed at Purdue University or are based in the four-site Purdue Research Park network are eligible to apply for a round of funding from the 
Emerging Innovations Fund. The cumulative funding of all awards will total up to $150,000. The deadline to apply for funding is Aug.
 31. Applications may be submitted to Jonathan D. Gortat, jdgortat@prf.org, project manager at the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization, in a Microsoft Word or PDF format.
 Due diligence will be conducted through Dec. 14, with awards determined later that month. Once a project is reviewed and recommended, investments may be tranched in accordance with milestone events.
 * Full business plan, complete with a financial plan, marketing strategies and an executive summary. * Company contact information, including management team names and titles, previous investors, IP status, number of employees, and the amount of capital sought.
 * Planned use of the requested investment, including specific product development events to be accomplished. Applications also must include 250-word descriptions of the following: one-line pitch; business summary; management team qualifications; customers' problem; company's solution; market definition; list of current and potential customers; sales and marketing strategy; business model; competitive landscape, including a list of competitors; and competitive advantages and a list of barriers to entry.
 Application assistance is provided through the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization. Questions should be directed to Gortat at 765-588-3485, 
jdgortat@prf.org, or visit http://otc-prf.org/emerging-innovations-fund Previous funding from the Emerging Innovations Fund was awarded to Bioscience Vaccines, Matrix-Bio, Medtric Biotech, Microfluidic Innovations, Spensa Technologies and Tymora Analytical Operations.
 The Emerging Innovations Fund was established in 2008 by the Purdue Research Foundation and Purdue University to expedite the process of moving research discoveries to commercial delivery.
 Funds distributed through the Emerging Innovations Fund are made on a competitive basis. The fund is designed to be self-sustaining by making investments as a loan with equity participation.
 In 2008 Purdue Research Foundation and Purdue University introduced the Emerging Innovations Fund, an integrated approach to research innovation, development and commercialization.
 The Emerging Innovations Fund is a self-sustaining initiative that brings together ideas, management and money to accelerate the commercialization of early-stage technologies in the Purdue community.
 Purdue Research Foundation is a private, nonprofit foundation created to advance the mission of Purdue University. The foundation accepts gifts; administers trusts; funds research, scholarships and grants; acquires property; and negotiates research contracts on behalf of Purdue.
 In the 1990s, the foundation was charged with helping the university in the realm of economic development. The Purdue Research Foundation oversees the Purdue Research Park, which is the largest university-affiliated business incubator in the country.
 In addition to the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette, the foundation has established technology parks in other locations around Indiana including Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 Jonathan D. Gortat, 765-588-3485, jdgortat@prf.org</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdues-incoming-class-projected-to-raise-academic-profile.html
<Content> Purdue's incoming class projected to raise academic profile
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The group of first-year students Purdue expects on its West Lafayette campus this fall will be the university's most academically prepared ever, according to preliminary admissions data.
 "Purdue's reputation continues to attract high-caliber students, and while many schools are competing for these students, there are a number of people and key initiatives at Purdue that attract them to West Lafayette," said Pamela T.
 Horne, associate vice provost for enrollment management and dean of admissions. "For example, the new Honors College is a priority for many of these top students.
 We also have personalized recruiting strategies in which administrators, such as Purdue President Mitch Daniels, call top students to encourage them to choose Purdue.
 These initiatives make an impact on many admitted students and their families." The projected percentage of Indiana students accepting admissions to Purdue this year is 59.8 percent, which is up compared to last year's 58.4 percent.
 These students' academic credentials are also on the rise. At this time, the average SAT composite score is up 21 points to 1770 this year, which will be updated when enrollment figures and student academic profiles are finalized in September.
 Since 2009, the average SAT total score for first-year students has increased 62 points. This year 334 of Indiana's top students - those with an A high school grade average and a total SAT score of 2100 - are expected to enroll at Purdue.
 That number is up from 281 in 2012 and 240 in 2011. "In an unprecedented way, Purdue is the destination for high-achieving Indiana students," said Daniels, who has contacted high school seniors who received some of Purdue's top scholarship awards - such as Presidential Scholars, Trustees, Emerging Leaders, Steven C.
 Beering and Stamps Family Charitable Foundation - to congratulate and welcome them to Purdue. "Any student arriving this fall can get an education at Purdue that is equal to or better than that at any university in the country at a cost far lower.
" The number of applications to Purdue also continues to climb. At this time, the West Lafayette campus has received 30,804 applications, up 0.2 percent from this time last year.
 If the trend continues, applications are expected to be a new record or hold with last year's all-time high of 30,903. Horne said interest in Purdue continues to increase because the university is known for the value of its education and its high return on investment.
 The president and many deans have spent their evenings calling admitted students to answer questions and speak to interested parents, Horne said.
 Current students also reach out to accepted students to answer questions about academic programs and campus life. Purdue's academic strength also is enhanced with the new Honors College, Horne said.
 This fall the college is expecting more than 620 first-year students, which is 100 more than anticipated. Recruiting efforts for this group of students include special campus visit days with opportunities for high school students to sit in on current honors classes.
 Mitch Daniels, president@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/purdues-international-student-population-ranks-2nd-for-public-schools.html
<Content> Purdue's international student population ranks 2nd for public schools
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University continues to have the second-largest international student population among U.S. public universities and is fourth overall, according to a report released Monday (Nov.
 12) by the Institute of International Education. "Purdue is well-known internationally as a premiere education destination, and this global aspect of our university continues to attract American students, too," said Purdue acting President Timothy Sands.
 "This diversity offers Purdue students real-world experience right on our campus through classes and student activities that prepare them for the global workforce.
 "The large number of international students also creates a rich, global alumni network that students can benefit from while on campus or after graduation.
" The 2012 Open Doors report is based on the 2011-12 academic year, and it reports Purdue had 8,563 international students. This number is larger than Purdue's reported 7,934 for Fall 2011 because the institute includes recent graduates who are still affiliated with their universities.
 The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign ranked first among U.S. public institutions with 8,997 international students. A private school, the University of Southern California, ranked first on the overall list, and New York University, also private, ranked third.
 Purdue also has the largest number of undergraduate international students at 4,406, and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is second with 3,768.
 Nationally, the number of international students attending American universities and colleges increased 6 percent from 723,277 in the previous report to 764,495.
 This is the sixth year that the number of international students studying in the United States has increased. The state of Indiana also saw a 10 percent increase from 20,112 to 22,194.
 Indiana University is ranked 11th on the Open Doors overall list with 6,123 international students. "In addition to the cultural and diversity experiences international students bring to our communities, they also support our local economies," said Michael Brzezinski, dean of international programs.
 Some Purdue international students also are active community volunteers through the Boiler Out! Program, which is coordinated by the 
Office of International Students and Scholars in International Programs. Last spring, nearly 100 Purdue international students spent part of their spring break helping in southern Indiana with clean-up activities following a tornado.
 This fall, Purdue reported an increase of 628 international students, bringing the current number to 8,562. These students represent 123 countries with 3,934 from China, 1,309 from India and 832 from the Republic of Korea.
 China has the most international students studying in the United States. The Open Doors report is published in partnership with the U.S.
 Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. The survey includes almost 3,000 accredited U.S. institutions and has been conducted annually since 1949.
 The report was released as part of this week's International Education Week. Michael Brzezinski, 765-496-6085, mbrzezinski@purdue.edu
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/purdues-latino-cultural-center-to-celebrate-10th-anniversary.html
<Content> Purdue's Latino Cultural Center to celebrate 10th anniversary
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's Latino Cultural Center will commemorate its 10th anniversary with several events this fall, beginning with a Friday (Sept.
 14) open house. "This celebration is a great milestone," said Maricela Alvarado, Latino Cultural Center director. "The LCC is a vibrant part of the Purdue community, filled with diversity of students, the aroma of Latin cuisine, Spanglish chatter and the feeling of family.
 We've created a lineup of events to mark this special occasion, including festive events, thought-provoking lectures and workshops.
" The open house will be from 4-6 p.m. at the center, 600 N. Russell St. The event kicks off Latino Heritage Month, which will be celebrated from Sept.
 14 through Oct. 15, and welcomes new and returning students, faculty and staff to campus. The open house keynote speaker will be Oliver T.
 Beatty, a Purdue alumnus who is an attorney at Ochs & Klein Attorneys, P.C., a St. Louis firm specializing in criminal defense, personal injury, workers compensation, family law and business litigation.
 * Sept. 20 through Oct. 28. Krannert Center. "Indigenismo Modernismo: A Selection from the Purdue Galleries' Latin American Art Collection.
" A collaboration among Purdue Galleries, Krannert School of Management and the art history program, the exhibition focuses on the issue of indigenismo, a social and artistic movement that attempted to give indigenous people greater visibility after the Mexican Revolution.
 Works by Latin American artists, including José Clemente Orozco, David Alfaro Siqueiros and Rufino Tamayo, will be featured. * Sept.
 27. 6 p.m. Stewart Center's Fowler Hall. "Gun Hill Road," the Sundance Film Festival's "must-see" movie of 2011. Presented by the LCC, Purdue's LGBTQ Center and the Purdue Student Union Board.
 The film depicts a man named Enrique who returns home after three years in prison to find his world and the family he once knew has changed.
 A discussion led by "Gun Hill Road" director Rashaad Ernesto Green and Lowell Kane, director of the LGBTQ Center, will follow. * Sept.
 28. 7 p.m. Stewart Center's Loeb Playhouse. Delta Phi Mu Latino Heritage Show. The 14th annual show by Purdue's first Latina-based sorority will showcase Latino/Latina culture with talent from across campus and the surrounding area.
 * Sept. 29. 10 a.m. Orgullo de Purdue. Tailgate activities before the Marshall-Purdue football game, hosted by the LCC. Cost is $25 and includes a game ticket, T-shirt and tailgating activities at the LCC.
 Presented in collaboration with Purdue Intercollegiate Athletics. To order your ticket, go to http://ev9.evenue.net/cgi-bin/ncommerce3/EVExecMacro?linkID=purdue&evm=prmo&RSRC=&RDAT=&caller=PR
 and type in promotion code: "orgullo." * Oct. 2. 6 p.m. Nancy T. Hansen Theatre, Yue-Kong Pao Hall. Actor-activist Esai Morales.
 Morales, who has appeared in the movie "La Bamba" and television programs such as "American Family" and "Jericho," combines art and activism to build understanding of social and environmental issues.
 Morales will share his life lessons on cultural identity and how he manages his identity development, both on and off the screen.
 Presented by the LCC and Purdue's Department of Theatre and the Patti and Rusty Rueff School of Visual and Performing Arts. * Oct.
 3. 9:30 a.m. Stewart Center, Room 214 ABCD. "Borges and the Sciences" symposium, presented by the College of Liberal Arts. What happens when literature, mathematics and physics collide?
 Panelists will debate the benefits of interdisciplinary research and education through the work of Argentine author Jorge Luis Borges.
 Participants include Floyd Merrell, professor emeritus in Purdue's School of Languages and Cultures; Daniel Balderston, Mellon Professor of Modern Languages and director of the Borges Center at the University of Pittsburgh; Guillermo Martinez, novelist and Ph.D.
 in mathematics; and Alberto Rojo, associate professor of physics at Oakland University. * Oct. 4. 1:30 p.m. Stewart Center, Room 322.
 Lecture by Daniel Balderston, Mellon Professor of Modern Languages and director of the Borges Center at the University of Pittsburgh.
 He will discuss gender scholarship and encourage attendees to think outside the box of established academic notions of sexuality and gender.
 * Oct. 4. 7:30 p.m. Krannert Auditorium. Lecture by author Guillermo Martinez, author of "Oxford Murders" and "Borges and Mathematics.
" Martinez will give his perspective on the mathematical thinking that runs through his stories and novels. Martinez earned a doctoral degree in mathematics from the University of Buenos Aires.
 "Borges and Mathematics" was translated and published by Purdue Press. * Oct. 11. 6:30-8:30 p.m. Lambert Fieldhouse, Room 208. "Teatro Campesino," presented by Multicultural Efforts to End Sexual Assault.
 The interactive event will include theater and workshops to explore how violence impacts Latina communities. The activities are designed to inspire solutions to prevent violence and promote positive social change in Latina communities.
 * Oct. 15-29. Stewart Center, under the mural. "The Race Experience," presented by the Office of Diversity and Inclusion. The race experience kiosk offers a diversity experience where people can see themselves in a different skin.
 You can change your race to black, white, Asian, Hispanic, Middle Eastern and Indian. * Oct. 16. Noon to 1 p.m. LCC, 600 N. Russell St.
 LaPolilla Café (Bookworm Café). The bilingual book club, a collaboration between the LCC and the Women's Resource Network, discusses "Monkey Hunting" by Cristina Garcia.
 The book follows a family from China to Cuba to America in a tale of immigration and assimilation. Contact Omar Diaz, odiaz@purdue.edu
, to RSVP. * Nov. 14. 6 p.m. Rawls Hall, Room 1011. "The Ancient Mayas and the Prophecy of 2012: Myth or Doom?" The event is presented by the LCC, the Native American Education and Cultural Center and the Diversity Resource Office.
 The ancient Maya cultures have been making headlines recently because of the alleged prophecy about the end of the world in 2012.
 Antonio Curet, adjunct curator at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, explores the topic from an anthropological and archaeological perspective.
 Learn about the Maya culture, their history, religion and what Dec. 21, 2012, means for them, and what it means for us. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdues-latino-cultural-center-to-celebrate-día-de-los-muertos.html
<Content> Purdue's Latino Cultural Center to celebrate 'Día de los Muertos'
 An altar display from the 2012 Día de los Muertos celebration. (Photo provided by Purdue Latino Cultural Center) Download Photo
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's Latino Cultural Center will celebrate "Día de los Muertos," or Day of the Dead, with music, crafts and food from 4-7 p.m.
 Oct. 31 at the Purdue Memorial Union ballrooms. The holiday has its roots in the Aztec and indigenous cultures of Mexico and is celebrated there and in Latino communities across North America on Nov.
 1-2. It coincides with Roman Catholic and other Christian denominations' holidays of All Saints' Day and All Souls' Day. The 11th annual event will feature ofrendas, or altars, made to celebrate and honor the lives of those who have departed.
 The altars are decorated with departed loved ones' prized possessions, said Marisol Uribe, program coordinator for the Latino Cultural Center.
 She said the LCC encourages the creation of contemporary altars, with a focus on current issues, by using interactive, audio or visual representations dedicated to loved ones or causes such as breast cancer or diabetes.
 Individuals and organizations that want to provide an altar should reserve a space by contacting Uribe at muribe@purdue.edu by Oct.
 22. There also will be music and arts and craft stations where participants can decorate sugar skulls and paper masks. Traditional food, including "pan de muerto" (dead bread), also will be available.
 The event, sponsored by the LCC and the Purdue Student Union Board, is free and open to the public. For more information, contact the Latino Cultural Center at 765-494-2530.
 The Latino Cultural Center was established in 2003 as Purdue's first center for Hispanic and Latino cultures. The organization is a gathering place where people of similar cultures and backgrounds can come together to share events in the university community.
 Sources: Marisol Uribe, Latino Cultural Center program coordinator, 765-494-2530, muribe@purdue.edu Antonia Munguia, Latino Cultural Center interim director, 765-494-7522, 
amunguia@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdues-low-to-participate-in-ibj-panel-discussion-on-outlook-for-indianas-life-sciences-industry.html
<Content> Purdue's Low to participate in IBJ panel discussion on outlook for Indiana's life sciences industry
 Purdue's Low to participate in IBJ panel discussion on outlook for Indiana's life sciences industry LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University researcher Philip Low will join a panel of experts on Friday (May 10) for the 
Indianapolis Business Journal's Power Breakfast Series focusing on the outlook for Indiana's life sciences industry. Low, the Ralph C.
 Corley Distinguished Professor of Chemistry and director of the Purdue Center for Drug Discovery, will be part of the panel discussion, which begins at 7:45 a.m.
 at the J.W. Marriott, 10 S. West St., in downtown Indianapolis. Joining Low on the panel will be Kristen Eilenberg, chief executive officer at Lodestone Logic and Infuse Accelerator; R.
 Matthew Neff, president of CHV Capital Inc.; Brian Stemme, project director for BioCrossroads; Brian S. Williams, Global Healthcare Strategy at PricewaterhouseCoopers International Ltd.; and Raul Zavaleta, CEO of Indigo BioSystems Inc.
 * Why is Indiana not seeing as much venture capital investment in life sciences companies as most of its Midwest peers? * How will digital health innovations change the business landscape for biotech and medical device startups?
 * Are Indiana's research universities turning out as many life sciences companies as they should be? For more information or to register for the event, go to 
http://www.ibj.com/ibj/event?eventId=183 While studying signal processes involved in transporting large molecules across the cell membrane in plants in 1989, Low and his Purdue team discovered that they could gain entry for a large molecule into a cell by linking it to a vitamin used by the cell.
 He immediately recognized that this process could be used medically and began to study the same process in mammalian cells. Today, Low is using a method of sneaking molecules directly into diseased cells while avoiding healthy tissue - a process that will save lives and improve the quality of life for patients undergoing treatment.
 So far, Low and his team at Endocyte Inc., a publicly traded company he founded at the Purdue Research Park, have successfully increased cancer drug potency while reducing toxicity.
 Six drugs in the end stages of clinical trials for kidney, lung, ovarian and endometrial cancers are the result of this work. Low received his Ph.D.
 from the University of California at San Diego in 1975 and joined the faculty at Purdue in 1976. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/purdues-new-herrick-labs-building-open-for-business.html
<Content> Purdue's new Herrick Labs building open for business
 Purdue University's new Ray W. Herrick Laboratories building opened this fall. The new facility roughly doubles the size of the labs, which are administered by the School of Mechanical Engineering.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University on Nov. 8 will unveil a new building and facilities for the expansion of the 
Ray W. Herrick Laboratories, a hub of industry-oriented research in areas ranging from advanced automotive technologies to "smart" buildings.
 The dedication will be at 3:30 p.m. in the new 68,000-square-foot building, located east of the existing Herrick building on Russell Drive.
 Construction began in October 2011. The new Herrick building roughly doubles the size of the labs, which are administered by the 
School of Mechanical Engineering. "The Herrick Labs have provided an important bridge between university research and industry, giving our best students opportunities based on real-world applications while helping corporations improve products and productivity," said Purdue President Mitch Daniels.
 About one-third of the project's cost was funded by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, which provided $11.75 million.
 The remainder came largely from private donors, including $3.5 million from alumnus Roger Gatewood, a $2 million contribution from alumnus Gerald D.
 Hines, $3.5 million from the Ford Fund and a more than $1 million in-kind donation from Carrier. The company's founder Willis Carrier -- inventor of modern air conditioning -- is honored with a laboratory named after him.
 Herrick's current facilities, such as an advanced engine test area, will be replaced and expanded. Support from Cummins Inc. for engine research at Herrick includes $1 million toward the building project.
 The new facility also will house components of Federal Aviation Administration multi-university centers specializing in studying the environment inside the cabin of a commercial airliner and the impact of aircraft noise.
 The new building houses the Center for High Performance Buildings, where research is focused on equipment and operational technologies to make possible future buildings that are safer, more environmentally and user friendly, energy efficient, productive and comfortable.
 Buildings are responsible for roughly 40 percent of the nation's energy use, 71 percent of electricity consumption and 38 percent of carbon dioxide emissions.
 Americans typically spend more than 90 percent of their time indoors, while 20 percent to 30 percent of occupants have health problems related to indoor environments, according to a project report prepared by Purdue and NIST, an agency of the U.S.
 Department of Commerce. "Our aim is to create buildings that are better for the environment, more comfortable and healthier for people," said Leah Jamieson, Purdue's John A.
 Edwardson Dean of Engineering. "These improvements will lead to buildings that positively impact the health and productivity of occupants.
" The economic impact related to health and lost productivity caused by poor indoor environments is estimated to be about $200 billion per year in the United States, according to the report.
 Poor indoor environments can cause respiratory illness, allergies and asthma, sick building syndrome, and musculoskeletal disorders.
 Buildings located near busy roads, trains and airports are susceptible to air quality issues, noise and vibration, which potentially lead to effects such as sleep disturbance, hypertension and heart disease.
 A special feature will be a "living laboratory," a working office wing designed with replaceable modular elements including windows; a reconfigurable air distribution and lighting system; and instrumentation to monitor and assess the environment within the offices and its impact on occupants.
 "The living laboratory will allow researchers to test and validate new systems and concepts within a real-world setting to evaluate energy performance and occupant response," said James Braun, director of the new Center for High Performance Buildings.
 One of the major challenges will be to develop an understanding of the relationships between indoor environments and human health and productivity, leading to the design of better building systems, said 
Patricia Davies, director of the Herrick Laboratories and professor of mechanical engineering. Her work is part of a multidisciplinary research group that will use a Perception Based Engineering Laboratory in Herrick.
 The Ford Fund donated the $3.5 million toward this laboratory and associated research. Work in the Perception Based Engineering Lab is focused on understanding factors that contribute to people's perception and responses to engineered systems and environments.
 In the context of high-performance buildings, that work is focused on examining the factors contributing to occupant comfort and performance.
 "An example of a use of this laboratory is to simulate aspects of building environments and determine how noise, temperature, humidity and lighting affect comfort.
 Such models can be used to guide decisions on environmental controls and building designs to improve occupant comfort," Davies said.
 The Herrick Labs were established in the 1950s with a grant from Ray W. Herrick, then CEO of Tecumseh Products Co., in Tecumseh, Mich.
, after mechanical engineering professor Bill Fontaine had spent a summer working at the company. Fontaine became the first director of the laboratories.
 Since then, about 900 Purdue students have completed graduate and doctoral degrees in work based at Herrick. More than 50 years after its start, Ray Herrick's great grandson, Kent Herrick, is working with the Herrick faculty on thermal systems research.
 The Herrick Foundation also provided one of the earliest gifts, a $1 million contribution, to this building project. "The new laboratories contain a truly unique set of facilities for considering the entire spectrum of building activities and technologies in isolation under controlled conditions or integrated in systems under real-world conditions," Braun said "No other university has facilities and expertise that cover the scale of activities from individual device to subsystem to whole building and occupant performance.
" From grant preparation to successful project completion, Purdue Physical Facilities coordinated the design and construction of the new Herrick facility with a variety of consultants, contractors, stakeholders and customers.
 Note to Journalists: To obtain broadcast-quality B-Roll and sound bites, contact Jim Schenke, Purdue News Service, at 765-237-7296, 
jschenke@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/purdues-spafford-to-receive-two-top-honors-in-cybersecurity.html
<Content> Purdue's Spafford to receive two top honors in cybersecurity
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University professor Eugene H. Spafford, a recipient of numerous honors and federal appointments, will soon receive two of the biggest awards in his field.
 The computer science professor and executive director of Purdue's Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security
 will be inducted into the National Cyber Security Hall of Fame in Baltimore on Oct. 9. He also has been selected for the Harold F.
 Tipton Lifetime Achievement Award. The honors are by two separate organizations, but he was informed within hours from both entities of his selection.
 "What's special about these awards is the value of what I've done is seen outside of academia," said Spafford, a frequent cybersecurity source for national and international news media.
 "It's evidence that the work here makes a difference in the business and how people live their lives. It encourages others in academia that they can also make a difference and there is value in doing what we do.
 While succeeding in the academy, as a field, we are having an impact in many areas." Spafford, a Purdue faculty member since 1987, is one of the most recognized leaders in the information security field, having served as an adviser or consultant for major companies, law enforcement, academic and government agencies.
 He has served in roles with two U.S. presidents, and worked with the U.S. departments of Justice and Energy, the U.S. Air Force, National Security Agency, and Federal Bureau of Investigation.
 Among his honors, Network World named him in 2006 as one of the 50 most powerful people in networking. The Washington Post profiled him in 2000 as one of the most influential policy experts in information security.
 He has testified before Congress many times on cybersecurity. He was one of the first Morrill Award recipients at Purdue University, recognizing the significance of his contributions to scholarship, education, and service.
 The Harold F. Tipton Lifetime Achievement Award honors individuals for their overall contributions to the information security profession, according to the (ISC)2 website.
 (ISC)2 is a not-for-profit organization that educates and certifies information security professionals throughout their careers.
 "Dr. Spafford's innovations and advocacy have shaped the information security industry, and we are proud to recognize him for his body of work and lifelong service to our field," commented Board Awards Committee chair professor Corey Schou, Fellow of (ISC)2, CSSLP.
 "From being the first to analyze the Morris worm to having a prominent role in the Usenet backbone cabal, his work has propelled us light years ahead of where we would be without his contributions.
" The National Cyber Security Hall of Fame was created and is supported by companies and organizations committed to recognizing those who played a key role in the industry's creation, according to the hall's website.
 Source: Eugene Spafford, 765-494-7825, spaf@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdues-top-students-to-be-honored-at-spring-commencement.html
<Content> Purdue's top students to be honored at spring commencement
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University will honor some of its highest academic-achieving graduating seniors during spring commencement ceremonies on May 10-12.
 Two students from the College of Agriculture were honored with the university's top student awards for graduating seniors. Laura A.
 Donaldson of Kentland, Ind., who majored in agribusiness management, has been awarded the 2013 Flora Roberts Award. The award is presented annually to the outstanding senior woman to honor scholarship, leadership, character and service to the university community.
 Donaldson will be working with John Deere in marketing. The award is made possible through a bequest from Flora Roberts, a member of the Purdue class of 1887.
 The recipient receives a $500 award, medallion and her name inscribed on the award marker on Purdue Mall. Gabriel W. Rangel of Indianapolis, who majored in biochemistry, has been awarded the 2013 G.A.
 Ross Award. The award is presented annually to Purdue's outstanding graduating senior man. He starts graduate school at Harvard University to seek a doctorate in biological sciences and public health.
 G.A. Ross, a 1916 graduate, stipulated that the award go to a graduating senior man demonstrating high standards of academic achievement, outstanding leadership, strength of character and contribution to Purdue.
 The recipient receives a $500 award, medallion and his name inscribed on the award marker on Purdue Mall. Donaldson and Rangel, along with the following student awards, will be recognized at their respective commencement ceremonies.
 The France A. Córdova Award for Leadership in Action was awarded to Jackson H. Troxel of LaCrosse, Ind., who majored in agricultural economics in the College of Agriculture.
 Troxel was honored for his leadership in President's Leadership Class, the Purdue Agricultural Council where he served as president, Purdue Student Government, a team leader for Boiler Gold Rush, a founding member of Purdue Ag Week and other organizations.
 This award honors a graduating student who has demonstrated exceptional leadership during his or her Purdue career. The student must have held successful leadership roles at Purdue, working in partnership with staff and faculty to move the university forward, while maintaining a minimum 3.0 grade point average.
 The award winner receives a certificate, a cash award and their name inscribed on a plaque. The Louis Sudler Prize in the Arts was awarded to Cameron K.
 Cecil of Fishers, Ind., who majored in mechanical engineering in the College of Engineering. The prize is awarded to an outstanding senior who has demonstrated excellence and the highest standards of proficiency in the visual or performing arts.
 The late Louis Sudler, a Chicago businessman and supporter of the arts, endowed this award. The recipient receives $1,000 and a certificate.
 Lourdes C. Urena of Panama City, Panama, who majored in interdisciplinary engineering, received the Martin C. Jischke Outstanding International Student of the Year Award.
 This award was established by president emeritus Martin C. Jischke to honor an international Purdue student who has made special efforts to welcome and connect with people of all cultures.
 The award is granted to a graduating senior who has attained a minimum 3.0 GPA, demonstrated leadership qualities, achieved academic accomplishments and participated in service projects.
 The recipient receives a cash award along with their name inscribed on a plaque in Schleman Hall. Sources: Christine DeHahn Pass, assistant registrar for records, registration and graduation, 765-494-6163, 
dehahn@purdue.edu Purdue campuses to host spring commencement ceremonies </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/purdues-west-lafayette-commencement-to-be-shown-live-on-tv,-webcast.html
<Content> Purdue's West Lafayette commencement to be shown live on TV, webcast
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Spring commencement ceremonies at Purdue University's West Lafayette campus will be broadcast live for television and Internet audiences.
 The colleges of Science and Technology will have their ceremony at 8 p.m. Friday, May 10. The colleges of Agriculture and Education and School of Management will have their ceremony at 9:30 a.m.
 Saturday, May 11. Commencement for the College of Engineering will be at 2:30 p.m. Saturday, May 11. The colleges of Health and Human Sciences and Veterinary Medicine will have commencement at 9:30 a.m.
 Sunday, May 12. The ceremony for the colleges of Liberal Arts and Pharmacy will be at 2:30 p.m. Sunday, May 12. The events will be aired live on Comcast Channel 5 and Boiler TV Channel 13.
 All speeches will be captioned for the hearing impaired. The ceremonies also will be shown live via webcast at mms://video1.itap.purdue.edu/graduation
 To watch online, viewers must have Windows Media Player, which can be downloaded for free at http://windows.microsoft.com/en-US/windows/downloads/windows-media-player
 Commencement videos will be available for $30 per DVD. Order forms can be obtained at the Loeb Playhouse box office, online at http://www.purdue.edu/registrar/pdf/DVD_Form.pdf
, or by calling 765-494-3933. Forms may be submitted both before and after the ceremony within two weeks of the event. Purdue campuses to host spring commencement
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/radiant-fried-chicken-patties-versus-traditional-split-decision.html
<Content> Radiant fried chicken patties versus traditional: split decision
 Kevin Keener, a Purdue University professor of food science, demonstrates the radiant fryer in a campus lab. (Purdue Agricultural Communication file photo/Tom Campbell)) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Panelists' preferences in a taste test were nearly equally divided between chicken patties fried in a radiant fryer developed by a Purdue University researcher and those fried in a conventional oil immersion fryer, a Purdue study showed.
 While panelists preferred the flavor and less oily texture of the radiant-fried patties, they preferred the crispiness and appearance of immersion-fried chicken patties.
 Panelists were split on their overall preference: 34 favored the radiant-fried patty, and 33 selected the immersion-fried patty.
 One panelist did not indicate a preference. "The key is that consumers are showing a willingness to eat food products cooked with a radiant fryer," said Kevin Keener, a professor in the Department of Food Science.
 "In some instances, they prefer characteristics that the radiant fryer can develop." Keener and two colleagues developed and patented the radiant frying system in 2007.
 The radiant fryer uses infrared energy to produce the appealing crispy exterior unique to fried food. Sixty-eight panelists were recruited on the basis of age, preference for fried chicken products, and a habit of eating "fast food" at least two times a month.
 The group consisted of students, employees and visitors of the Department of Food Science. Panelists rated randomly numbered samples of chicken patties on the basis of flavor, crispiness, oiliness, appearance and overall preference.
 This was the first study to compare the properties and consumer appeal of radiant fried and oil immersion fried chicken patties.
 It was also the first to use the new pilot scale radiant fryer, which has 10 independent radiant heating zones, compared with five zones in the previous laboratory model.
 Adjustable halogen "emitters" heat partially-fried food products as they are conveyed through the fryer. Because the fryer requires no additional oil, radiant fried food has less fat and fewer calories than foods finished in an oil bath.
 The radiant fryer can produce chicken patties with 16 percent less fat and 19 percent more moisture than oil immersion-fried patties.
 Along with the health benefits, reducing oil cuts down on waste, cost and the safety hazards associated with handling hot oil, Keener said.
 It also can result in better tasting food. "When you bite into a fried food, about 80 percent of what you taste is oil," Keener said.
 "The oil masks the flavor. When we start removing the oil, people are amazed at how much of the underlying product they can taste.
" Forty of the 68 participants rated the radiant-fried patties as tastier than oil immersion-fried patties. Keener envisions a radiant fryer product line with flavored foods such as cheddar cheese hash browns and barbeque chicken.
 Designing products specifically for the radiant fryer would ensure more uniform frying results. Researchers currently are limited to testing foods that have been formulated for an oil immersion fryer.
 One challenge to the success of the radiant fryer is consumer reaction, which can be difficult to predict. Though the radiant fryer produced chicken patties with equivalent crust thickness to those fried in oil, 48 out of 68 panelists rated the oil immersed patties as crispier, sending researchers back to fine-tune the frying profile and product design.
 "Crispiness is a solvable problem," said Keener. "We can now go back and make adjustments to these products, working with the manufacturers to meet consumers' expectations.
" The results of the preference test suggest that radiant frying could be a viable alternative to oil immersion frying, said Louis Nelson III, lead author of the report.
 "From a statistical standpoint, there was no difference in panelists' overall preference," said Nelson, a doctoral student in food process engineering.
 The study is available on the website of the journal LWT – Food Science and Technology at http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0023643813001011
. It is to be published in a print version in October. A video showing the radiant fryer oven in operation can be viewed at http://youtu.be/xrpj4IpibcM
 Louis V. Nelson III 1; Kevin M. Keener 2; Kaitlin R. Kaczay 2; Preetha Banerjee 2; Jean L. Jensen 2; Andrea Liceaga 2 1 Dept. of Agricultural and Biological Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana, USA
 With limited success, numerous attempts have been made to reduce the fat content of oil immersion fried foods, while maintaining their unique characteristics.
 A recent advancement in frying is dynamic radiant frying. Radiant frying utilizes infrared energy to reproduce the heating profile generated during oil immersion frying without oil immersion, the result being a fried food with a crispy surface and similar temperature profile to immersion fried with significantly less oil.
 The goal of this study was to compare frozen, consumer-ready chicken patties, fried using the FryLess 100 K Radiant Fryer, and oil immersion frying, respectively.
 Properties compared included core and surface temperatures, oil content, moisture content, color, and peak shear force. Significant differences (P < 0.01) were observed in color, oil content, and moisture content.
 Radiant fried patties were slightly lighter in color and had an average of 16% less oil and 19% more moisture than the immersion fried.
 Sensory evaluation revealed that panelists preferred the flavor and less oily mouthfeel of the radiant fried patties, but preferred the crispness and appearance of the immersion fried patties.
 Panelists indicated no difference in overall preference, signifying that radiant frying may serve as a viable alternative to oil immersion frying of some chicken products.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/rche,-ourhealth-partner-on-research-project-to-enhance-care-delivery.html
<Content> RCHE, OurHealth partner on research project to enhance care delivery
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University's Regenstrief Center for Healthcare Engineering is partnering with OurHealth, a leading provider of onsite health management services for employers, on a research project to assess the viability of an innovative decision-support tool to enhance health outcomes.
 The project is designed to help identify ways to improve care-management strategies as well as cost-saving opportunities by utilizing the clinical expertise at Indianapolis-based OurHealth and RCHE's strong informatics, data management and industrial engineering experience.
 In addition, the project recognizes the critical role that accurate, timely and comprehensive information plays to ensure high-quality, evidence-based health care is delivered.
 "Data can play a major role in improving the delivery of health care, but only if it is used, understood and applied in the medical world," said Richard Buckius, Purdue vice president for research.
 "Feedback is essential to bridging the gap between the research concept and a health-care environment that can truly make an impact.
 Through this partnership with OurHealth, Purdue's Regenstrief Center can help effect a usable end result with a provider committed to improving patient care.
" As an integrated health management and primary care provider, OurHealth seeks to continually enhance its ability to improve decisions made at the point of care.
 Additionally, the decision-support tools will enable OurHealth, at the practice level, to more effectively obtain performance feedback, benchmark outcomes and share best practices.
 "Our participation in this unique research demonstrates our ongoing commitment to helping our clients experience incomparable health-care treatment, and we are thrilled to extend our onsite clinical statistics and data to this research," said OurHealth CEO Ben Evans.
 "The information that we are able to provide will drastically impact the way that we provide services to our clients and patients.
 We are humbled and honored to be involved in this grant project with full anticipation of the findings." Steve Witz, director of RCHE, said the center is expected to release results from the analysis within the upcoming year.
 RCHE research scientist Ping Huang is project leader. Located in Purdue's Discovery Park, RCHE takes a research approach centered on the six aims issued by the Institute of Medicine: care that is patient-centered, safe, equitable, efficient, effective and timely.
 The center focuses on unique clinical partnerships that showcase four main research categories: the interaction between the patient and providers, patient care processes, patient care outcomes, and support systems.
 RCHE strives for quality relationships that optimize the quality of care for patients in need. Regenstrief Center for Healthcare Engineering (RCHE) was developed to apply academic principles from engineering, science and management to health care industry challenges, all with the goal of improving the health care delivery system.
 RCHE receives core funding from the Regenstrief Foundation, but also applies for and receives research grants. Center researchers come from nearly all 11 academic colleges at Purdue.
 RCHE also works with clinical and dissemination partners representing health-care providers and professional organizations from around the state and nation.
 OurHealth is a leading independent, clinically driven provider of integrated on-site health management services for employers. It focuses on enhancing workforce productivity and lowering health-care costs, leading to sustainable value.
 Using a consultative and analytical approach to design customized solutions for its clients, OurHealth provides onsite clinical care focused on the primary health-care needs of employees, while offering turnkey service with its Total Health Management Solution.
 The goal of this comprehensive program is to provide value-conscious care options for patients through health promotion, wellness and prevention efforts, lifestyle management, chronic condition and medication management support, on-site laboratory and pharmacy services, and referral guidance.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/reading-with-indianas-poet-laureate-karen-kovacik.html
<Content> Reading with Indiana's poet laureate Karen Kovacik
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The Purdue University Literary Reading Series presents a reading with Indiana's Poet Laureate, Karen Kovacik, at 7:30 p.m.
 on Nov. 13 in the Krannert Auditorium, Room 140. There will also be a question and answer session 4:30 p.m. on Nov. 13 in Stewart Center, Room 214D.
 Both events, sponsored by the Department of English and the Creative Writing Program, are free and open to the public. Kovacik is the author of several collections of poetry, including "Metropolis Burning," "Beyond the Velvet Curtain" and "Nixon and I.
" Her work as a poet and translator has received numerous honors, including the Charity Randall Citation from the International Poetry Forum, a fellowship in literary translation from the National Endowment for the Arts and a Fulbright Research Grant to Poland for her translations of contemporary Polish poetry
. In 2013, her booklength translation of Agnieszka Kuciak's "Distant Lands: An Anthology of Poets Who Don’t Exist" appeared from White Pine Press, and in 2014, her anthology of Polish women poets, "Calling Out to Yeti," is also forthcoming from White Pine.
 Source: Rebecca McKanna, Visiting Writers Series coordinator, 319-400-9163, rmckanna@purdue.edu College of Liberal Arts </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/registration-opens-for-fifth-annual-indiana-innovation-showcase-to-connect-high-tech-startups-with-investment-opportunities.html
<Content> Registration opens for fifth annual Indiana Innovation Showcase to connect high-tech startups with investment opportunities
 Registration opens for fifth annual Indiana Innovation Showcase to connect high-tech startups with investment opportunities INDIANAPOLIS – Applications are now being accepted for companies that wish to exhibit and pitch to investors at the fifth annual 
Innovation Showcase on July 11 at the Dallara IndyCar Factory in Speedway, Ind. More than 1,000 innovators, entrepreneurs and investors are expected to attend the event where more than 60 high-potential startups will exhibit their enterprises.
 During the daylong event, participating entrepreneurs will have the opportunity to pitch their startup, competing for more than $60,000 in cash and services.
 The program also includes an entrepreneurial panel discussing successful startup models and an investor roundup in which regional investors of early-stage enterprises will discuss a range of funding topics.
 "The Innovation Showcase provides a great opportunity for exhibiting companies and for entrepreneurs to make strong connections with investors," said John Hanak, statewide director of the Purdue Technology Centers and president of the Venture Club of Indiana.
 "This event has grown each year, and this year we expect a record attendance so we have moved to a larger venue." The event was previously held at the Purdue Research Park of Indianapolis and Developer Town in Broad Ripple, Ind.
 Technologies to be presented are from a variety of sectors including life sciences, engineering, alternative energy, information technology and industrial products.
 "The energy at this event is phenomenal and the program has made a real measurable impact on startups and economic development for Indiana," said Matt Hunckler, founder of Verge.
 "Past exhibitors who have gone on to success include Scale Computing, myCOI, Indigo Biosystems, BlueLock, PatronPath and many, many others.
 I am confident there will be a number of entrepreneurs who will get a boost for their startup through this event." Dallara IndyCar Factory is located at 1201 Main St.
, Speedway. The event is presented by Venture Club of Indiana, a non-profit organization dedicated to helping entrepreneurs and investors succeed, and Verge, an Indianapolis-based network for entrepreneurs, software developers and startup investors.
 Sponsors for Innovation Showcase include Alerding, Castor and Hewitt LLC; Barnes & Thornburg LLP; Developer Town; Elevate Ventures; fox.io; Halo Capital Group; ISBDC; Launch Fishers; Purdue Research Foundation; TechPoint; Venture Club of Indiana; and Verge.
 Ticket prices are $35 for early-bird registration, which ends May 31. Tickets are $50 after May 31 and $75 at the door the day of the event.
 For more information, visit http://www.theinnovationshowcase.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/registration-underway-for-27th-annual-purdue-business-plan-competition.html
<Content> Registration underway for 27th annual Purdue business plan competition
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Registration is underway for the 27th annual Burton D. Morgan Business Plan Competition, a $100,000 event that showcases innovative ideas with commercialization potential from Purdue University students
. Entrants have until noon Nov. 1 to sign up for the event, which is scheduled for Feb. 18 at Discovery Park's Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship
. To register, go online to https://purdue.qualtrics.com/SE/?SID=SV_bKuffHnRmrIHlMF. "The annual Burton Morgan Business Plan Competition in Purdue's 
Discovery Park has grown into one of the nation's longest-running university business plan competitions," said Joseph Pekny, interim director of the Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship. "And we're excited that we can offer this competition and $100,000 in cash prizes to Purdue students from any discipline who dream of turning an idea into a successful venture.
" The Gold division is open to all graduate and undergraduate student teams from any discipline. The winner from among the five finalists will receive a $30,000 top prize.
 In the Black division, five undergraduate teams will compete for a $20,000 top prize. When the five-week registration process closes, participants have until noon Nov.
 4 to submit executive summaries. Semifinalists are announced Dec. 3, and the deadline to file formal business plans is Jan. 17, 2014.
 Ten finalist teams will be announced in early February for the competition. For more information, contact Bambrah Miller of the Burton D.
 Morgan Center at 765-494-1335, BDMCenter@purdue.edu. Competition sponsors are the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship and Krannert School of Management.
 Indianapolis-based law firm Ice Miller, which has provided scholarship funding for Purdue's Certificate of Entrepreneurship and Innovation Program, also is offering in-kind services to the competition's top finishers.
 The late Burton D. Morgan was a Purdue alumnus who started 50 companies, six of which have become major corporations, including Morgan Adhesives, one of the world's largest makers of pressure-sensitive adhesives.
 He also was president of Basic Search Co., an idea-development firm, and wrote several books on entrepreneurship. The entrepreneurship competition started in 1987 with an endowment gift to Purdue from the 
Burton D. Morgan Foundation. The Morgan Foundation also funded the $7 million, 31,000-square-foot Center for Entrepreneurship. The Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, through its sponsored initiatives and partnerships - including the Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Technology Realization Program, Entrepreneurial Leadership Academy and business plan competitions - aims to stimulate entrepreneurship at Purdue and serves as a state, regional and national resource.
 The building also is home to the Purdue Foundry, an entrepreneurship and commercialization hub that opened in July to provide assistance in areas such as product ideation and market analysis as well as business-plan development, alumni and faculty mentoring, and help in finding funding.
 Opened in 2004, the 31,000-square-foot, two-story Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship was the first building completed in Discovery Park, the university's interdisciplinary research complex for large-scale projects.
 NOTE TO JOURNALISTS: The dates for the registration deadline, submission of executive summaries and semifinalist announcement have been changed from a previous version of this news release.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/reminder-2014-benefit-sessions-to-be-offered-in-loeb-playhouse.html
<Content> Reminder: 2014 benefit sessions to be offered in Loeb Playhouse
 Human Resources will offer a 2014 benefits information session two times in seven days in Stewart Center's Loeb Playhouse. "The Big Picture: 2014 Medical Options and HSAs" looks at the dynamics affecting Purdue's medical plans and reviews all three 2014 choices.
 The session delves into the benefits of a health savings account (HSA) and explains how an HSA works together with a high-deductible medical plan.
 Sessions will be held at the following times: The sessions are open to all benefits-eligible Purdue employees and their spouses/same-sex domestic partners.
 Employees may attend in paid status with supervisor approval. Pre-registration is not required. Recorded versions of "Is a High-Deductible Medical Plan Your Best Choice?
" and "Health Care: Moving Forward in 2014" are available now on the Benefits website at www.purdue.edu/hr/Benefits/Medical/recordedPresentations.html
. PowerPoint slides from the presentations are also offered. More sessions will be offered during the benefits open enrollment period, which will run Oct.
 28 through 6 p.m. Nov. 15. For questions, contact the Human Resources Service Center at 49-42222 or hr@purdue.edu. Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907
</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/report-sharing-individual-health-information-could-improve-care-and-reduce-costs-for-all.html
<Content> Sharing individual health information could improve care and reduce costs for all
 INDIANAPOLIS and WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Information collected from individual patients at doctor's office and hospital visits could be used to improve health care and reduce costs on a national scale, according to a discussion paper released by the Institute of Medicine.
 As health care records move to electronic systems, there is an opportunity to compile information taken from individuals and use it to conduct large studies that advance the entire health care system, said Michael D.
 Murray, the Regenstrief Institute investigator and Purdue University professor who led the team of experts that wrote the discussion paper.
 "Every health care encounter provides not only an opportunity to improve the health of the individual patient, but also to help improve the care of others," said Murray, who is the executive director of the Regenstrief Center for Healthcare Effectiveness Research at the Regenstrief Institute, Inc.
 "Currently, the information collected like blood pressure, weight, medications used, disease diagnoses and medical history are used only to inform decisions for that individual patient.
 We are missing a tremendous opportunity to turn our health care system into one that learns from each care experience and leads to better and more affordable care for all.
" Such information could be used to better monitor diseases and outbreaks, target medical services where they are most helpful, reduce unnecessary testing and treatments, prevent medical errors, and accelerate medical research and delivery of new treatments, he said.
 "Patient and provider engagement in sharing data is the key to realizing this potential," said Murray, who also is a distinguished professor of 
pharmacy practice and endowed chair of medication safety at Purdue. "We want the public to know that this can be done in a very secure way that maintains their privacy.
 We hope that a better understanding of what could be achieved leads to a greater number of people approving the use of their data for research and health care improvement.
" There are laws that set standards for the use of clinical data for research and measures like the removal of names, addresses and other identifying information to protect a patient's confidentiality.
 Still, surveys show the privacy and security of electronic data are among patients' top concerns about data sharing. In addition to raising awareness of the benefits of secure data sharing, better integration of data and more trained professionals to analyze large data sets are needed, he said.
 The discussion paper, "Making the Case for Continuous Learning from Routinely Collected Data," details the various sources of clinical data available and case studies of how this information can be used.
 The authors were participants in the Clinical Effectiveness Research Innovation Collaborative of the Institute of Medicine Roundtable on Value & Science-Driven Health Care.
 In addition to Murray, authors include Sally Okun of PatientsLikeMe, Deven McGraw of the Center for Democracy & Technology, Paul Stang of Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research and Development, Eric Larson of Group Health Cooperative, Donald Goldmann of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement, Joel Kupersmith of the Veterans Health Administration, Rosemarie Filart of the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences at the National Institutes of Health, Rose Marie Robertson of the American Heart Association and Claudia Grossmann of the Institute of Medicine.
 Note to Journalists: A headshot of Michael Murray is available at: http://www.purdue.edu/uns/images/2013/murray-mick13.jpg </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/required-health-care-reform-notice-to-describe-health-insurance-exchanges.html
<Content> Required Health Care Reform notice to describe health insurance 'exchanges'
 All current Purdue employees will be receiving a required Health Care Reform notice this month, but benefits-eligible employees who plan to be covered by a Purdue medical plan in 2014 will not need to take any action related to the notice.
 Beginning Jan. 1, 2014, the Affordable Care Act -- commonly known as Health Care Reform -- will require everyone to have health care insurance or pay a fine.
 Individuals can get the required insurance through an employer plan (such as Purdue's plans for benefits-eligible faculty and staff, or a spouse's employer plan), through a government program (such as Medicare or Medicaid) or through coverage they buy on their own.
 To help those who are looking to buy insurance on their own, the government's new Health Insurance Marketplace will connect people to the health coverage "exchanges" available in their area.
 Employers are required to make all employees, including those who are not eligible for benefits, aware of their Marketplace options.
 Purdue notices will be delivered to the employee's Purdue email address. * Because Purdue's medical plans meet the minimum value and affordable coverage stipulations of Health Care Reform, a Purdue employee would not receive a subsidy at the Marketplace, likely making the plan offered through Purdue a better value.
 The Marketplace rates will be available Oct. 1 for a full comparison. * Those who plan to have 2014 medical coverage through Purdue are not required to take any action related to the notice.
 * The information in the notice has nothing to do with Purdue medical insurance enrollment. Benefits open enrollment for Purdue medical options will take place, as usual, this fall.
 The open enrollment period for Purdue benefits will be Oct. 28 through 6 p.m. Nov. 15. * Information about 2014 Purdue medical plan options is available now through the Purdue Benefits website at 
www.purdue.edu/benefits. All employees may visit Purdue's Health Care Reform Web page at www.purdue.edu/hr/Benefits/Medical/healthCareReform.html
 for information and related links. Benefits-eligible faculty and staff may contact the Purdue Human Resources Service Center at 49-42222 or 
hr@purdue.edu.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/research-aims-to-reduce-security-threats-from-explosives.html
<Content> Research aims to reduce security threats from explosives
 Purdue doctoral student David Kittell, at left, and graduate student Peter Renslow perform an experiment to study homemade explosives as part of a national effort to protect against terrorist attacks.
 Purdue researchers are participating in the Awareness and Localization of Explosives-Related Threats center (ALERT). (Purdue University photo/Andrew Hancock) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University researchers are working on ways to detect explosives and neutralize their impact as part of a U.S.
 Department of Homeland Security center led by Northeastern and Rhode Island universities. The researchers are participating in the Awareness and Localization of Explosives-Related Threats center (ALERT).
 "The work we do aims to improve screening for explosives at airports, seaports and other public venues like football arenas and the civilian infrastructure," said 
Stephen Beaudoin, a professor of chemical engineering and director of graduate admissions in the School of Chemical Engineering. 
The Purdue team also is led by Steven Son, a professor of mechanical engineering, and Charles Bouman, Purdue's Showalter Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Biomedical Engineering.
 Funding recently was renewed to ALERT, a Department of Homeland Security Center of Excellence. A consortium of universities and national laboratories, ALERT is one of 12 such centers in the nation.
 Its second phase will be launched during a ceremony on Oct. 22 at Northeastern. Researchers are working to develop portable detectors as well as larger systems to scan for explosives.
 Some technologies will analyze the spectrum of light shining through vaporized samples; others will analyze solid residues. "You might, for example, analyze a fingerprint to tell whether a person had been handling explosives," Beaudoin said.
 Bouman and Son have been working in the center for about four years, while Beaudoin recently joined the team. Beaudoin's research focuses on detecting traces of explosives.
 Son's research has focused on blast mitigation using water sprays and barriers and more recently on characterizing homemade explosives so that their threat can be better assessed.
 Bouman focuses on using CT scanners to detect and identify explosives in luggage, cargo cases and other applications. "As part of our work for ALERT, we are creating a new generation of algorithms for CT reconstruction in airport security scanners," Bouman said.
 "These algorithms have the potential to both increase the safety of travel and also reduce inconvenience and cost to the public.
" Researchers are improving the performance of CT scanners and other devices using a system of models to extract specific information from huge collections of data and then reconstructing images like a jigsaw puzzle.
 The new approach is called model-based iterative reconstruction, or MBIR. Traditionally, imaging sensors and software are designed to detect and measure a particular property.
 The new approach does the inverse, collecting huge quantities of data and later culling specific information from this pool of information using specialized models and algorithms.
 MBIR could bring more affordable CT scanners for airport screening. In conventional scanners, an X-ray source rotates at high speed around a chamber, capturing cross section images of luggage placed inside the chamber.
 However, MBIR could enable the machines to be simplified by eliminating the need for the rotating mechanism. Son's research for ALERT focuses specifically on the types of explosives most likely to be used by terrorists.
 "We've concentrated on the small-scale explosive characterization of homemade explosives typically made by terrorists," he said.
 "The need to characterize explosives that could be used in threats has been increasing due to the variety of constituent materials used and relatively low costs that allow terrorist to obtain and use them.
" He leads work to perform experiments and simulations using a computer code developed by Sandia National Laboratories. "The final goal of this work is to demonstrate that the calibrated model obtained from the small-scale experiment is able to predict the results of large-scale experiments," he said.
 Researchers will work to characterize a wider variety of explosives, develop high-resolution data analysis techniques and compare experimental data to the simulations.
 The research also will include work by Purdue postdoctoral associates and students. It is based at the Maurice J. Zucrow Laboratories and the Forney Hall of Chemical Engineering.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/research-could-lead-to-better-tasting-tomatoes,-other-benefits.html
<Content> Research could lead to better-tasting tomatoes, other benefits
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Some compounds that determine plant species' characteristics such as the taste of tomatoes can be engineered to produce larger quantities in plants that have few or none of them, researchers at Purdue University have found.
 Tomatoes available in the Northern states typically are grown in warmer climates, such as in Florida, California and Mexico, and harvested immature and still green so that they can ripen during or after shipment.
 But picking them before they are ripe affects their flavor, which has led to complaints from consumers. "The research ultimately could lead to a variety of uses, such as in improving the taste of fruits including fresh-market tomatoes, in increasing the resistance of plants against pests or diseases, or in producing certain flavors, fragrances and pharmaceuticals," said Natalia Dudareva, distinguished professor of biochemistry.
 The research involving metabolic engineering also was conducted by Purdue postdoctoral research associate Michael Gutensohn, with collaborators at the University of Michigan and in Israel.
 It was published in the August edition of The Plant Journal as the cover story. Terpenes, a class of volatile compounds, are important because they often determine how fruits taste; how the flowers of a plant smell, thus attracting pollinators; and what characteristics plants might have to repel or defend themselves against pests.
 The goal in the research was to determine how metabolic engineering can be used to produce large quantities of monoterpenes, a particular group of terpenes, to improve taste and aromatic qualities of fruits.
 The researchers at Purdue used tomato fruits for their metabolic engineering studies to increase production of monoterpenes. Tomatoes are an ideal system for this research because during ripening they accumulate large amounts of carotenoids, the red pigment giving these fruits their characteristic color.
 Carotenoids and terpenes are made from the same molecular building blocks, which allowed the researchers to tap into the pool of building blocks naturally available in tomato fruits and then engineer the production of monoterpenes.
 The researchers learned that the largest quantities of monoterpenes were obtained through the combination of two enzymatic steps.
 In the first step, two of the available molecular building blocks are fused together to build an intermediate product. In the second step, the chemical structure of this intermediate is further modified, leading to the formation of monoterpenes.
 The research was funded by grants from the Agricultural and Food Research Initiative of the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the United States-Israel Binational Agricultural Research and Development Fund.
 Cytosolic monoterpene biosynthesis is supported by plastid-generated geranyl diphosphate substrate in transgenic tomato fruits Michael Gutensohn 1; Irina Orlova1 1; Thuong T.
 H. Nguyen 2; Rachel Davidovich-Rikanati 3; Mario G. Ferruzzi 4; Yaron Sitrit 5; 1 Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, United States of America
 2 Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, United States of America
 3 Department of Vegetable Crops, Newe Yaár Research Center, Agricultural Research Organisation, PO Box 1021, Ramat Yishay, Israel
 4 Department of Food Science, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, United States of America 5 The Jacob Blaustein Institutes for Desert Research, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, PO Box 653, Beer-Sheva 84105 Israel
 6 Department of Biochemistry, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, United States of America Geranyl diphosphate (GPP), the precursor of most monoterpenes, is synthesized in plastids from dimethylallyl diphosphate and isopentenyl diphosphate by GPP synthases (GPPSs).
 In heterodimeric GPPSs, a noncatalytic small subunit (GPPS-SSU) interacts with a catalytic large subunit, such as geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthase, and determines its product specificity.
 Here, snapdragon (Antirrhinum majus) GPPS-SSU was overexpressed in tomato fruits under the control of the fruit ripening-specific polygalacturonase promoter to divert the metabolic flux from carotenoid formation toward GPP and monoterpene biosynthesis.
 Transgenic tomato fruits produced monoterpenes, including geraniol, geranial, neral, citronellol and citronellal, while exhibiting reduced carotenoid content.
 Co-expression of the Ocimum basilicum geraniol synthase (GES) gene with snapdragon GPPS-SSU led to a more than threefold increase in monoterpene formation in tomato fruits relative to the parental GES line, indicating that the produced GPP can be used by plastidic monoterpene synthases.
 Coexpression of snapdragon GPPS-SSU with the O. basilicum a–zingiberene synthase (ZIS) gene encoding a cytosolic terpene synthase that has been shown to possess both sesqui- and monoterpene synthase activities resulted in increased levels of ZIS-derived monoterpene products compared to fruits expressing ZIS alone.
 These results suggest that re-direction of the metabolic flux toward GPP in plastids also increases the cytosolic pool of GPP available for monoterpene synthesis in this compartment via GPP export from plastids.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/research-reveals-how-antibodies-neutralize-mosquito-borne-virus.html
<Content> Research reveals how antibodies neutralize mosquito-borne virus
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Researchers have learned the precise structure of the mosquito-transmitted chikungunya virus pathogen while it is bound to antibodies, showing how the infection is likely neutralized.
 The findings could help researchers develop effective vaccines against the infection, which causes symptoms similar to dengue fever, followed by a prolonged disease that affects the joints and causes severe arthritis.
 In recent outbreaks, some cases progressed to fatal encephalitis. The researchers studied "virus-like particles," or non-infectious forms of the virus.
 They also obtained near atomic-scale resolution of the virus attached to four separate antibodies. "We knew these antibodies neutralize the real virus, so we wanted to know how they do it,"
 said Michael Rossmann, Purdue University's Hanley Distinguished Professor of Biological Sciences. The scientists used a technique called cryoelectron microscopy to uncover critical structural details about the virus-like particles bound to the antibodies.
 The particles are made of 180 "heterodimers," molecules made of two proteins: envelope protein 1, or E1, and envelope protein 2, or E2.
 The findings show the precise structure of the virus-like particle bound to a key part of the antibodies, called the antigen binding fragment, or Fab, which attaches to the heterodimers making up the virus's outer shell.
 The analyses showed that the antibodies stabilize the viral surface, hindering fusion to the host cell and likely neutralizing infection.
 "This is the first time the structure of an alphavirus has been examined in this detail," Rossmann said. The research is aimed at learning precisely how viruses infect humans and other hosts, knowledge that may lead to better vaccines and antiviral drugs, Rossmann said.
 Chikungunya in 2005 caused an epidemic on Réunion Island. A mutation in the E1 protein has allowed the virus to replicate more efficiently, which is considered the primary reason for its recent extensive spread, infecting millions of people in Africa and Asia.
 The paper was co-authored by Purdue researchers Siyang Sun and Ye Xiang, Akahata Wataru of the National Institutes of Health, Heather Holdaway of Purdue, Pankaj Pal of the Washington University School of Medicine, Xinzheng Zhang of Purdue, Michael S.
 Diamond of the Washington University School of Medicine, Gary J. Nabel of the NIH, and Rossmann. The research team conducted experiments to record the structure of the virus in different orientations and obtained a three-dimensional structure with a resolution of 5.3 Ångstroms, or 5.3 ten-billionths of a meter.
 The research, funded by the NIH, is ongoing and involves one graduate student and five postdoctoral students. One goal is to learn how the virus is modified when the antibodies bind to the virus and to obtain higher-resolution images.
 Note to Journalists: Journalists may obtain a copy of the research paper by contacting Emil Venere, 765-494-4709, venere@purdue.edu
 Structural Analyses at Pseudo Atomic Resolution of Chikungunya Virus and Antibodies Show Mechanisms of Neutralization Siyang Sun
1,4, Ye Xiang1,4, Akahata Wataru2, Heather Holdaway1,5, Pankaj Pal3, Xinzheng Zhang1, Michael S. Diamond3, Gary J. Nabel2, Michael G Rossmann
1,* (1 Dept of Biological Sciences, Purdue University; 2 Vaccine Research Center, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health; 
3 Departments of Medicine, Molecular Microbiology, Pathology & Immunology, Washington University School of Medicine; 4 These authors contributed equally to this work)
 * Corresponding author. Department of Biological Sciences, 240 S. Martin Jischke Drive, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907-2032, USA.
 Tel.: +1 765-494-4911; Fax: +1 765-496-1189; E-mail: mr@purdue.edu A 5.3 Å resolution, cryo-electron microscopy (cryoEM) map of Chikungunya virus-like particles (VLPs) has been interpreted using the previously published crystal structure of the Chikungunya E1-E2 glycoprotein heterodimer.
 The heterodimer structure was divided into domains to obtain a good fit to the cryoEM density. Differences in the T=4 quasi equivalent heterodimer components show their adaptation to different environments.
 The spikes on the icosahedral 3-fold axes and those in general positions are significantly different to each other, possibly representing different phases during initial generation of fusogenic E1 trimers.
 CryoEM maps of neutralizing Fab fragments complexed with VLPs have been interpreted using the crystal structures of the Fab fragments and the VLP structure.
 Based on these analyses the CHK-152 antibody was shown to stabilize the viral surface, hindering the exposure of the fusion-loop, likely neutralizing infection by blocking fusion.
 The CHK-9, m10 and m242 antibodies surround the receptor-attachment site, probably inhibiting infection by blocking cell attachment.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/research-yields-first-detailed-view-of-morphing-parkinsons-protein.html
<Content> Research yields first detailed view of morphing Parkinson's protein
 This graphic illustrates the morphing structure of a brain protein thought to play a role in Parkinson's disease, information that could aid the development of medications to treat the condition.
 Researchers have taken detailed images and measurements of the changing structure for the first time. Findings reveal that the protein morphs from its globular shape into "protofibril" strands that assemble into pore-like rings.
 These rings then open up, forming pairs of protofibrils that assemble into fibrils through hydrogen bonds. (Purdue University/ Hangyu Zhang) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Researchers have taken detailed images and measurements of the morphing structure of a brain protein thought to play a role in Parkinson's disease, information that could aid the development of medications to treat the condition.
 The protein, called alpha synuclein (pronounced sine-yoo-cline), ordinarily exists in a globular shape. However, the protein morphs into harmful structures known as amyloid fibrils, which are linked to protein molecules that form in the brains of patients with neurodegenerative diseases.
 "The abnormal protein formation characterizes a considerable number of human diseases, such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases and type II diabetes," said 
Lia Stanciu, an associate professor of materials engineering at Purdue University. Researchers incubated the protein in a laboratory and then used an electron microscope and a technique called cryoelectron microscopy to snap thousands of pictures over 24 hours, capturing its changing shape.
 The protein was frozen at specific time intervals with liquid nitrogen. Findings reveal that the protein morphs from its globular shape into "protofibril" strands that assemble into pore-like rings.
 These rings then open up, forming pairs of protofibrils that assemble into fibrils through hydrogen bonds. "We found a correlation between proto&#64257;brils in these rings and the &#64257;brils, for the &#64257;rst time to our knowledge, by measuring their true sizes and visualizing the aggregation steps," Stanciu said.
 "A better understanding of the mechanism yields fresh insight into the pathogenesis of amyloid-related diseases and may provide us the opportunity to develop additional therapeutic strategies.
" Parkinson's disease affects 1 percent to 2 percent of people older than 60, and an increase in its prevalence is anticipated in coming decades.
 The findings were detailed in a research paper appearing in the June issue of the Biophysical Journal. The paper was authored by doctoral student Hangyu Zhang; former postdoctoral research associate Amy Griggs; Jean-Christophe Rochet, an associate professor of medicinal chemistry and molecular pharmacology; and Stanciu.
 The researchers caused the protein to morph into fibrils by exposing it to copper, mimicking what happens when people are exposed to lead and other heavy metals.
 The contaminants interfere with the protein, changing the oxidation states of ions in its structure. The research was funded by the National Institutes of Health.
 Future work will include experiments focusing on what happens when higher concentrations of copper are used. Note to Journalists
: Journalists may obtain a copy of the research paper by contacting Emil Venere at 765-494-4709, venere@purdue.edu In Vitro Study of a-Synuclein Proto&#64257;brils by Cryo-EM Suggests a Cu2D-Dependent Aggregation Pathway 
 † Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, ‡Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, and §School of Materials Engineering, Purdue University
 The aggregation of a-synuclein is thought to play a role in the death of dopamine neurons in Parkinson's disease. Alpha-synuclein transitions itself through an aggregation pathway consisting of pathogenic species referred to as proto&#64257;brils (or oligomer), which ultimately convert to mature &#64257;brils.
 The structural heterogeneity and instability of proto&#64257;brils has signi&#64257;cantly impeded advances related to the understanding of their structural characteristics and the amyloid aggregation mystery.
 Here, we report, to our knowledge for the &#64257;rst time, on a-synuclein proto&#64257;bril structural characteristics with cryoelectron microscopy.
 Statistical analysis of annular proto&#64257;brils revealed a constant wall thickness as a common feature. The visualization of the assembly steps enabled us to propose novel, to our knowledge, mechanisms for a-synuclein aggregation involving ring-opening and proto&#64257;bril-proto&#64257;bril interaction events.
 The ion channel-like proto&#64257;brils and their membrane permeability have also been found in other amyloid diseases, suggesting a common molecular mechanism of pathological aggregation.
 Our direct visualization of the aggregation pathway of a-synuclein opens up fresh opportunities to advance the understanding of protein aggregation mechanisms relevant to many amyloid diseases.
 In turn, this information would enable the development of additional therapeutic strategies aimed at suppressing toxic proto&#64257;brils of amyloid proteins involved in neurological disorders.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/researcher-finds-way-to-convert-blood-cells-into-autoimmune-disease-treatment.html
<Content> Researcher finds way to convert blood cells into autoimmune disease treatment
 Chang Kim, a Purdue University professor of comparative pathobiology, has developed a way to turn cells readily available in blood into a potential treatment for autoimmune diseases.
 (Purdue University photo/ Andrew Hancock) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Cells from one's own blood could be converted into a treatment for autoimmune diseases, like rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn's disease, based on the discovery of a Purdue University researcher.
 Chang Kim, a professor of comparative pathobiology, has created a way to direct the differentiation of T-cells, a white blood cell that is a key player in the body's immune system.
 The method uses naïve T-cells, immature cells from which all T-cells develop, and induces them to become suppressive T-cells that block the development of painful inflammation associated with autoimmune diseases.
 Naïve T-cells can be gathered from a patient's blood, treated and then re-injected, said Kim, who also is a university faculty scholar and member of Purdue's Center for Cancer Research and Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering.
 "These cells are being directed to become a type of cell that is already present in our bodies, where a fine balance between inflammatory T-cells and suppressive T-cells is maintained," he said.
 "We are just tipping the scales in favor of suppressive T-cells to reduce inflammation. Because of this there are none of the toxic side effects associated with many immune-suppressive drugs.
 In addition, cells from one's own body aren't rejected and remain in the body much longer. Instead of taking a pill every day, this could lead to a treatment administered, for example, every six months.
" Autoimmune diseases occur when the immune system attacks one's own body instead of fending off infection from viruses, bacteria and other foreign cells.
 An overactive immune system sends T-cells to healthy tissue and organs where they cause inflammation and tissue destruction. Suppressive T-cells migrate to areas of inflammation and suppress the T-cells there without significantly lowering the number of T-cells in other areas of the body where they are needed for proper immune function, Kim said.
 "Treatment with suppressive T-cells has the potential to be a much more precise and targeted regulation of immune function than what currently exists," he said.
 "Treating autoimmune diseases without compromising a patient's immune system has been a big problem in the field. We need to catch the thief without taking down the house, and this has that potential.
" Kim discovered that naïve T-cells cultured in the presence of the hormone progesterone can be induced to become suppressive T-cells.
 This discovery and his work have been detailed in papers in the Journal of Immunology and the European Journal of Immunology. The group also filed a patent based on this work.
 The national Institutes of Health and the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America funded the research. Studies in mice showed that about 500,000 suppressive T-cells are needed to have an effect on inflammation, Kim said.
 "More work needs to be done to determine the appropriate dosage of cells for a human patient, but the amount of blood many people regularly donate would likely yield multiple treatments," he said.
 Kim next plans to study at the molecular level how progesterone causes the cells to differentiate into suppressive T-cells and to uncover the proteins and protein receptors involved.
 An understanding of the molecular regulation of these cells could lead to a way to control their differentiation and function without using progesterone, he said.
 Source: Chang Kim, 765-494-0976, chkim@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/researchers-discover-genes-resistant-to-soybean-pathogen.html
<Content> Researchers discover genes resistant to soybean pathogen
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University researchers have identified two genes within the soybean genome that are highly resistant to a soilborne pathogen that causes Phytophthora root and stem rot, a disease that costs U.S.
 soybean growers more than $250 million annually in lost yield. The discovery, made by a team of scientists led by Jianxin Ma and Teresa Hughes, could lead to the development of soybean cultivars better able to withstand the pathogen 
Phytophthora sojae. The Purdue research was published online by Theoretical and Applied Genetics and is to appear in the journal's November print edition.
 Naturally occurring Phytophthora sojae resistance exists in soybean germplasm. Most previous resistant genes, however, have lost their ability to fight off the pathogen, which has developed immunity to them.
 Together, the two newly identified genes appear stronger than most earlier genes and could remain viable for many more years, said Ma, a soybean geneticist in Purdue's Department of Agronomy.
 "These two genes demonstrate resistance to all the predominant isolates of this pathogen found in Indiana and many other isolates that are virulent to previously identified resistance genes," he said.
 "If these two genes are effectively used in Indiana and other Midwest soybean crops, an annual net increase in soybean production would be anticipated.
" Phytophthora sojae has been a problem for Indiana soybean farmers since it was first found in the state in 1948. The pathogen thrives in wet, cool conditions and produces spores that move in water and onto soybean roots.
 Diseased roots form lesions that can move up the stem and kill the entire soybean plant. The pathogen also produces spores that can remain dormant in soil through the winter and become active when warm weather returns.
 Even in normal crop years Phytophthora sojae is responsible for 8-15 percent crop loss nationwide. Because the soybean plant's own genetic resistance to 
Phytophthora sojae has proven to be the best way to control the pathogen, the mapping of the soybean genome in recent years has improved the odds of finding other resistant genes.
 But the Purdue team made its discovery looking for a genetic answer to another soybean problem, said Hughes, a U.S. Department of Agriculture plant pathologist and adjunct professor in Purdue's Department of Botany and Plant Pathology.
 "We were originally looking for possible resistance to Asian soybean rust," she said. "Our experimental locations had high Phytophthora pressure, and we found that these genes did very well against that disease.
 That was our first clue that they might have good resistance to Phytophthora sojae." During its three years of study the Purdue researchers have developed molecular "markers" - identifying tags - that can be used to expedite the transfer of the resistant genes to soybean cultivars.
 That process is known as marker-assisted selection. "There are about 46,000 predicted gene models in what we call the reference soybean genome," Ma said.
 "These markers allow rapid pyramiding of multiple resistant genes into a single cultivar in order to boost the effectiveness of resistance.
" Although Phytophthora sojae eventually could render the two resistant genes ineffective, the pathogen itself likely would become much weaker, Hughes said.
 "Every time a pathogen overcomes resistance in its plant host it has to give up something itself," she said. "So if it turns out that in order for the pathogen to overcome this new resistance it ends up having a fitness penalty - for instance, it can't compete as well or it doesn't survive as long in the soil - then these genes will last longer.
 "We believe these genes are durable, but we don't know enough about them yet to predict how effective they could be, and for how long.
" Ma, Hughes and collaborating Purdue researchers Scott Abney, Feng Lin, Meixia Zhao, Jieqing Ping, Austin Johnson and Biao Zhang plan to continue their research.
 They next hope to move their work from greenhouses and into field trials. After that the resistant lines could make their way into commercial cultivars.
 "This has the potential to provide a higher profit margin for soybean farmers, as well as reducing the use of harmful chemicals and promoting a cleaner environment," Ma said.
 The Theoretical and Applied Genetics paper, "Molecular mapping of two genes conferring resistance to Phytophthora sojae in a soybean landrace PI 567139B," can be viewed at 
http://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007%2Fs00122-013-2127-4.pdf Molecular mapping of two genes conferring resistance to Phytophthora sojae in a soybean landrace PI 567139B
 Phytophthora root and stem rot (PRR), caused by the soil-borne oomycete pathogen Phytophthora sojae, is one of the most destructive diseases of soybean.
 PRR can be effectively controlled by race-specific genes conferring resistance to P. sojae (Rps). However, the Rps genes are usually non-durable, as populations of P.
 sojae are highly diverse and quick to adapt, and can be overcome 8-15 years after deployment. Thus, it is important to identify novel Rps genes for development of resistant soybean cultivars.
 PI 567139B is a soybean landrace carrying excellent resistance to nearly all predominant P. sojae races in Indiana. A mapping population consisting of 245 F2 individuals and 403 F2:3 families was developed from a cross between PI 567139B and the susceptible cultivar 'Williams,' and used to dissect the resistance carried by PI 567139B.
 We found that the resistance in PI 567139B was conferred by two independent Rps genes, designated RpsUN1 and RpsUN2. The former was mapped to a 6.5 cM region between SSR markers Satt159 and BARCSOYSSR_03_0250 that spans the Rps1 locus on chromosome 3, while the latter was mapped to a 3.0 cM region between BARCSOYSSR_16_1275 and Sat_144, approximately 3.0-3.4 cM upstream of Rps2 on chromosome 16.
 According to the 'Williams 82' reference genome sequence, both regions are highly enriched with NBS-LRR genes. Marker assisted resistance spectrum analyses of these genes with 16 isolates of P.
 sojae, in combination with the mapping results, suggested that RpsUN1 was likely to be a novel allele at the Rps1 locus, while RpsUN2 was more likely to be a novel Rps gene.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/researchers-to-study-lake-michigan-currents-with-scientific-vessel.html
<Content> Researchers to study Lake Michigan currents with scientific vessel
 Purdue researchers are spending a week near the middle of Lake Michigan, about 50 miles southeast of Milwaukee, aboard the Blue Heron research vessel, seen here.
 They will be tracking a fluorescent plume of dyed water to study how currents transport contaminants and aquatic life. (University of Minnesota-Duluth, Large Lakes Observatory photo/Brett Groehler) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Researchers from Purdue University are spending a week aboard a scientific vessel in Lake Michigan, tracking a fluorescent plume of dyed water to study how currents transport contaminants and aquatic life.
 The five-member team, which includes four students, will conduct research aboard the Blue Heron for seven days beginning Sunday (July 14).
 The experiment is being conducted in the middle of the lake, about 50 miles southeast of Milwaukee. "The goal is to do a dye-release experiment and to track the dye patch over time to see where it diffuses and where it moves and to relate that to the information we have about the lake currents and waves," said 
Cary Troy, an assistant professor in Purdue's School of Civil Engineering. "One obvious application is for something like an oil spill or any sort of contaminant spill in the Great Lakes.
 If you have a spill, you need to predict where it's going to go and how quickly it's going to dissipate." Findings also could help to better understand movement of organisms such as plankton and fish larvae.
 "Data will be used to improve computer models of how these things are circulated and transported in the Great Lakes," said Troy, who is working with doctoral student Jun Choi, undergraduate David Cannon and two other students.
 The research vessel is operated with funding from the University-National Oceanographic Laboratory System, a group of academic institutions and national laboratories involved in oceanographic research.
 The vessel is part of a fleet associated with the National Science Foundation's Division of Ocean Sciences, and the research is funded by NSF's Physical Oceanography Program.
 Research findings could apply to any of the Great Lakes and other large bodies of water, including oceans The non-toxic dye, called Rhodamine WT, is initially bright pink and later is not detectable by the naked eye.
 The researchers will track it using equipment called a fluorometer, which detects dye fluorescence. The fluorometer is mounted to an instrument package that is towed behind the ship and controlled so that it undulates up and down, a technique called Tow-Yo.
 The up-and-down movement enables researchers to create a two-dimensional scan of the dye patch. "Then, we will go back and forth in sort of a grid pattern while we are Tow-Yoing, providing a three-dimensional view of the dye patch," Troy said.
 The research is needed in part because, unlike oceans, the Great Lakes lack the predictable regularity of tides. Instead, Lake Michigan currents are determined by a combination of factors including winds and water temperatures that vary according to depth.
 These factors combine to cause a complex, spiraling water flow, producing a type of wave called an inertial wave. "You can get currents as strong as a half-meter per second in the middle of Lake Michigan," Troy said.
 "The effect is strongest in the middle of each of the Great Lakes, so that's why we are doing the research there. We don't have tides in Lake Michigan, but we do have inertial waves, and these waves can often cause tidal-like behavior in the lake's interior in terms of their strength and regularity.
" The researchers hypothesize that the waves govern dispersion of particles in the interior of the Great Lakes. In addition to the fluorometer, researchers will use devices called drifters to track the dye.
 The buoy-like drifters flow with currents using underwater sails. They are equipped with GPS systems and beam their location to a satellite every hour.
 The real-time positions provided by the drifters will help guide the researchers as they attempt to follow the drifting dye patch over the seven-day cruise.
 The NOAA Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory in Ann Arbor, Mich. is providing real-time forecasts of the dye-patch location.
 Source: Cary Troy, 765-494-3844, troy@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/retirement-appointments,-workshops-available-from-fidelity.html
<Content> Retirement appointments, workshops available from Fidelity
 Monthly presentations by Fidelity, Purdue's partner in helping employees plan and save for retirement, are being scheduled in buildings around campus.
 These sessions are among the ways employees can check their progress on establishing and meeting retirement goals. A Fidelity consultant from the local office will be on hand to help create an easy, actionable plan for retirement saving and spending.
 Presentations will be held 9-10:30 a.m. Tuesday (July 23) in Stanley Coulter Hall, Room 102, and 8:30-10 a.m. July 29 in Stanley Coulter Hall, Room G030.
 To reserve a spot for either of this month's sessions, call Fidelity at 800-642-7131 or visit http://plan.fidelity.com/purdue and follow these instructions:
 * Click "Schedule an Appointment." * Choose "Educational Workshops." * Select Purdue University and then "Stanley Coulter Hall."
 * Enter your information and choose "Other "when asked what we can help you with. * Click "Reserve." * Click "Confirm." For those unable to attend either presentation, Fidelity representatives will be offering one-on-one consultations July 24-31 in Stanley Coulter Hall.
 Visit http://plan.fidelity.com/purdue and click "Schedule an Appointment." Look for the dates that say "Stanley Coulter Hall." In August, Fidelity will hold presentations in Smith Hall, Room 118, at the following times: 3-4 p.m.
 Aug. 19 and 9-10 a.m. Aug. 28. Fidelity presentations will move to a new building cluster each month. Watch for announcements in your area.
 Employees may schedule a one-on-one consultation at any time by calling 800-642-7131, visiting http://plan.fidelity.com/purdue, or stopping by the office in Purdue Memorial Union.
 Fidelity also will bring presentations to departments. To request a presentation, contact the local office directly at 800-544-6868 or email 
jennifer.spencer@fmr.com. For a list of available topics, visit www.purdue.edu/hr/pdf/FidelityPresentations.pdf. For more information on retirement plans, tools and resources, visit 
www.purdue.edu/hr/Benefits/retirement.html or http://plan.fidelity.com/purdue.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/road-to-retirement-offered-today-for-employees-age-55-and-older.html
<Content> Road to Retirement offered today for employees age 55 and older
 Human Resources invites benefits-eligible employees age 55 and older to the Road to Retirement program being held today (Sept. 23).
 Sessions will be offered in Stewart Center, Rooms 302 and 306. No registration is necessary; attendees simply choose the sessions that interest them.
 Employees may attend in paid status with their supervisor's permission. Five organizations will share information pertinent to employees who are approaching retirement:
 * Fidelity presentation at 9 a.m. and 2 p.m. in Stewart Center, Room 302. * PERF presentation at 9 a.m. and 2 p.m. in Stewart Center, Room 306.
 * Purdue University Retirees Association/Retiree Health Plan Options presentation at 8 a.m. and 1 p.m. in Stewart Center, Room 302.
 * Social Security presentation at 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. in Stewart Center, Room 302. * TIAA-CREF presentation at 11 a.m. and 4 p.m.
 in Stewart Center, Room 306.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/rosa-clemente-to-give-annual-latino-heritage-month-keynote-address.html
<Content> Rosa Clemente to give annual Latino Heritage Month keynote address
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Rosa Clemente, an activist and political commentator, will give the annual Latino Heritage Month keynote address at 7 p.m.
 Tuesday (Oct. 1) in Stewart Center's Fowler Hall. National Hispanic Heritage Month is observed from Sept. 15 to Oct. 15. It began in 1968 as Hispanic Heritage Week and was expanded in 1988 to cover the 30-day period.
 Clemente's topic will be "Presente! Latinos y Latinas in the 21st Century." The talk is sponsored by the Purdue University Latino Cultural Center
, in collaboration with the Purdue LGBTQ Center and the Purdue University Black Cultural Center. A graduate of the University of Albany and Cornell University, Clemente helped coordinate the first National Hip Hop Political Convention in 2003.
 Her academic work focuses on researching national liberation struggles in the United States, with a focus on the Young Lords Party, the Black Panther Party, and the Black and Brown Liberation movements of the 1960s and '70s.
 She speaks at colleges and universities across the nation and has appeared on CNN, C-Span and National Public Radio. In another Latino Heritage Month event, the film "Abuelas: Grandmothers on a Mission" will be shown at 6 p.m.
 Thursday (Oct. 3) in Biochemistry Building, Room 105. The film depicts the story of Argentinian grandmothers who are searching for their grandchildren, the children of their sons and daughters who disappeared during Argentina's "dirty war.
" Ariel De la Fuente, a Purdue associate professor of history, will facilitate a discussion after the film. The event is co-sponsored by the LCC, Multicultural Efforts to End Sexual Assault and Delta Phi Mu.
 Also in October, the LCC will hold its annual Día de los Muertos from 4-7 p.m. Oct. 31 in the Purdue Memorial Union South Ballroom.
 Sources: Marisol Uribe, Latino Cultural Center program coordinator, 765-494-2530, muribe@purdue.edu Antonia Munguia, Latino Cultural Center interim director, 765-494-7522, 
amunguia@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/sands-to-graduates-boilermakers-have-a-history-of-going-one-brick-higher.html
<Content> Sands to graduates: Boilermakers have a history of going 'one brick higher'
 Graduates were all smiles as they took part in Purdue University commencement ceremonies Sunday (Dec. 16) in Elliott Hall of Music on campus.
 About 2,750 students were candidates for degrees. (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue acting President Timothy Sands paired Boilermaker spirit with the wisdom of accomplished alumni to challenge the university's newest graduates to make a difference.
 Sands spoke to graduates during winter commencement ceremonies Sunday (Dec. 16) in Purdue's Elliott Hall of Music. More than 2,750 students were candidates for degrees.
 Sands said the university has a long history - starting from its founding - of rising to the occasion and producing alumni who do the same.
 In 1894, he noted, a fire destroyed an early campus landmark. Then-President James Smart declared that Heavilon Hall would be rebuilt - "One brick higher.
" "That phrase continues to define the Boilermaker spirit," Sands said. "Purdue Boilermakers work hard to make things better in the world.
 They accomplish remarkable feats, sometimes against the odds, and often without precedent." Sands spoke of a long line of Boilermaker accomplishments that had profound world impact: The landing of the Eagle on the moon, an airbus on the Hudson River and a space rover on Mars.
 He noted the inventors of Fiberglass and Stovetop Stuffing are Purdue graduates, as are the writers of an Academy Award-winning screenplay, best-selling novels and of software called a "Wiki.
" Nobel and World Food prize winners, Super Bowl champions and, of course, winners of the Old Oaken Bucket, have come from Purdue.
 He noted that Boilermakers have created new drugs for fighting cancer and discovered a new virus that may one day lead to a treatment for tuberculosis, and have become CEOs of international companies, mayors of towns and governors of states across our nation.
 "The accomplishments of our alumni, faculty and staff are as varied as the students sitting in this great hall," Sands said. "But as different as they are, these great deeds have something in common: They all relied on the leadership of a Purdue Boilermaker.
" The late Neil Armstrong, the first person to walk on the moon, was such an example, Sands said. "Neil tended to understate his accomplishments.
 He was a humble man, which made him a great leader," Sands said. "When he returned from his historic moonwalk, Neil talked about helping the needy and feeding millions of hungry people around the world.
 He said, 'It's going to take an international approach far beyond any cooperative effort ever seen in history. ' " Sands said Armstrong had the vision of a great leader because he saw a cause larger than himself and that leadership is about learning how to pull people or ideas together to focus on a clear objective.
 "People become leaders because they want to make something better, just as we once built a building 'one brick higher,'" he said.
 Sands wished the graduates "a safe flight and happy landing," as they launch into the next phase of their journeys. Photo gallery of the December 2012 commencement ceremonies
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/schoolhouse-partners-publishes-directory-of-grants-for-community-and-economic-development-groups.html
<Content> Schoolhouse Partners publishes directory of grants for community and economic development groups
 Schoolhouse Partners publishes directory of grants for community and economic development groups Schoolhouse Partners has published the 13th edition of Funding Sources for Community and Economic Development, which includes more than 5,000 funding opportunities.
 It can be ordered directly from the company or through Barnes & Noble bookstores, EBSCO Information Services, Ingram Books and YBP Library Services.
 (Schoolhouse Partners image) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Leaders of organizations in the community and economic development sector can use a resource from a Purdue Research Park affiliate firm to find grant resources for programs in community assistance, health care, education, library services, historical and genealogical societies, and other areas.
 Schoolhouse Partners LLC has published the 13th edition of Funding Sources for Community and Economic Development. It can be purchased directly from Schoolhouse Partners or through Barnes & Noble bookstores, EBSCO Information Services, Ingram Books or YBP Library Services.
 The information also is available on GrantSelect, Schoolhouse Partners' subscription-based online database. Louis S. Schafer, editorial director, said leaders in community and economic development will find 44 program types in the directory including:
 "There are more than 5,000 grant opportunities in the 13th edition of Funding Sources for Community and Economic Development, an increase of more than 400 over the previous edition," he said.
 "Grant sponsors include U.S. and foreign foundations, corporations, family trusts, public charities, professional organizations, government agencies and other organizations.
" Each record is listed in three indices: by geography, program type and subject. Records include grant title; description; requirements; award amount; application deadline; contact information including phone, fax, email and Internet address; sponsor name and address; and samples of awarded grants.
 Schoolhouse Partners is a full-service consulting firm that provides assistance to educational, nonprofit and community agencies in obtaining grant funding.
 Since 2003 the company has helped nonprofit and tax-exempt groups raise millions of dollars through hundreds of funded grants and awards.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 240 companies that employ about 4,500 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Source: Louis S. Schafer, 765-237-3390, lou.schafer@schoolhousepartners.net </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/science-is-harnessing-shock-waves-to-create-new-materials.html
<Content> Science is harnessing shock waves to create new materials
 Purdue University doctoral student Matthew Beason works on equipment for research that is part of a national effort to develop new materials created using shock waves similar to those generated by meteorites striking the Earth.
 The "shock-induced synthesis" is promising for creating materials that have super strength and other properties for a range of potential applications.
 (Andrew Hancock/Purdue University) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Researchers at Purdue University are part of a national effort to develop new materials having super strength and other properties by using shock waves similar to those generated by meteorites striking the Earth.
 The research is funded by the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) through a new center led by the University of Notre Dame and also includes collaborators from Indiana University.
 The Center for Shock Wave-processing of Advanced Reactive Materials (C-SWARM) is funded with $1.6 million annually for five years.
 The center's primary mission is to predict shock conditions under which new materials can be synthesized. A team of researchers at Purdue will perform experiments using equipment in the university's Maurice J.
 Zucrow Laboratories and the Robert L. and Terry L. Bowen Laboratory for Large-Scale Civil Engineering Research. The Purdue team is led by 
Steven Son, a professor of mechanical engineering, and Weinong Chen, a professor of aeronautics and astronautics and materials engineering and associate head for Graduate Education.
 A meteorite impacting the Earth generates high pressures and temperatures. The researchers are striving to replicate these conditions to create materials able to withstand extreme temperatures and possessing superior strength and unique electromagnetic properties.
 The Purdue researchers will work to validate and calibrate computational models for simulations of this "shock-induced synthesis.
" The models may enable the researchers to predict structures that could be produced through the synthesis. Specifically, Purdue researchers plan to find a new approach for shock-induced synthesis of a material called cubic boron nitride, Son said.
 The material has a crystal lattice structure similar to carbon's and could potentially exist in many forms. "The hexagonal form corresponding to graphite is the most stable and softest among these forms and is used as a lubricant and an additive to cosmetic products," Son said.
 "The cubic variety is analogous to diamond, and its hardness is second only to diamond's, but its thermal and chemical stability is superior.
” The cubic boron nitride is produced by treating hexagonal boron nitride at high pressure and temperature, much as synthetic diamond is produced from graphite.
 The material must be exposed to pressures at least 50 times greater than that at the bottom of Mariana Trench - about 11 kilometers below the ocean surface - and temperatures hotter than the melting point of iron.
 The Purdue portion of the project also will involve a research scientist, a graduate student and an undergraduate student. C-SWARM is one of six new centers of excellence whose primary focus is on the emerging field of predictive science.
 Established by Congress in 2000, NNSA is a semi-autonomous agency within the U.S. Department of Energy responsible for enhancing national security through the military application of nuclear science.
 NNSA maintains and enhances the safety, security, reliability and performance of the U.S. nuclear weapons stockpile without nuclear testing; works to reduce global danger from weapons of mass destruction; provides the U.S.
 Navy with safe and effective nuclear propulsion; and responds to nuclear and radiological emergencies in the United States and abroad.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/science-on-tap-talk-to-delve-into-the-wild-world-of-plant-genetics.html
<Content> Science on Tap talk to delve into the wild world of plant genetics
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The wild, vibrant and even lethal world of plant genetics will take center stage at Purdue University's Science on Tap
 lecture next week. Brian Dilkes, an assistant professor in the Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture at Purdue, will speak at 6 p.m.
 Thursday (Oct. 17) as part of the informal lecture series. The event, which is free and open to those 21 and older, is in the upstairs of the Lafayette Brewing Company, 622 Main St.
, Lafayette. The talk, titled "More Death than a Greek Tragedy: Speciation Genetics, Sex and Infanticide," is sponsored by the Purdue Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, the College of Agriculture and 
Discovery Park. "A casual look out your window yields a feast of diversity organized into genetically distinct units, or species.
 While it may look gorgeously harmonious to you, it is a feast of frustration and death," Dilkes said. The talk will examine the many questions that his research laboratory tackles every day in understanding how species arise, the molecular nature of the barrier between species and whether some biological processes are more sensitive to diversity than others.
 One of the consistent observations about species is that, even when crossing closest relatives, the hybrids exhibit sterility and lethality, resulting in a barrier to gene flow, Dilkes said.
 This allows each species to act as a repository of solutions to all of life's problems. "We kill millions of embryos every year in an effort to identify genes that are responsible for this barrier.
 This means facilitating sex between species and cataloging the amount and kinds of death that occur," he said. Dilkes, whose research focuses on understanding the short- and long-term evolution of plants and how early plant species survive and expand, received his doctorate degree in plant sciences from the University of Arizona after receiving his bachelor's degree in biology from Oberlin College.
 Before joining the Purdue faculty in 2009, he served as a project scientist for the Genome Center at the University of California, Davis, and a postdoctoral fellow for the U.S.
 Department of Agriculture at the University of Washington. Science on Tap, now led by graduate students David Welkie, Anju Karki and Nelda Vazquez, provides Purdue faculty and collaborating researchers the opportunity to share research activities in an informal setting with presentations that are designed to appeal to a more general audience.
 Attendance at the monthly event has averaged 80 during the program's first four years. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/sds,-brown-stem-rot-showing-up-in-indiana-soybeans.html
<Content> SDS, brown stem rot showing up in Indiana soybeans
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Soybean producers should look for sudden death syndrome, or SDS, and brown stem rot when scouting fields over the next few weeks in order to identify the fungal diseases and prevent future yield loss due to disease.
 Soybean fields across Indiana have started to show symptoms of SDS, and brown stem rot is another disease sometimes confused with SDS.
 Yield loss from the diseases can be minor or major, depending on how widespread they become - which is why identification is key.
 "There is no in-season management for these diseases, but it's important to identify fields that have the diseases to prevent yield loss in future years," said Kiersten Wise, Purdue Extension plant pathologist.
 "It can help to know which fields have the diseases so producers can select disease-resistant varieties for the next time the fields are planted to soybean.
" Symptoms of SDS, caused by the fungus Fusarium virguliforme, aren't typically noticed until August, even though the fungus infects plants early in the growing season during wet, cool weather.
 Many soybeans emerged from wet soils this spring, so Wise cautioned producers to look for SDS and brown stem rot. The diseases have similar foliar symptoms, which include yellowing or browning between the leaf veins.
 "You can tell the difference between SDS and brown stem rot by examining the internal tissue in the lower stem of the plant," Wise said.
 "The first step is to pull up the plant and split the lower stem. With SDS you'll see discoloration in the cortex of the stem and root.
 Whereas with brown stem rot you'll see a discoloration in the pith." The pith of plants affected by SDS will remain white. In some instances, both diseases might be present in a plant, which can make diagnosis difficult.
 Identifying the diseases can help producers make good management decisions the next time a particular field goes into soybeans. 
"For instance, if you know a field has the disease, you can select a variety for next year that will be less susceptible to either disease," Wise said.
 "It is important to be sure if you have SDS or brown stem rot since varieties that have resistance to brown stem rot might not necessarily be resistant to SDS, and vice versa.
" Each seed company has varieties rated for SDS and brown stem rot resistance, so producers should contact their local seed dealers when selecting resistant varieties.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/search-committee-named-for-honors-college-dean.html
<Content> Search committee named for Honors College dean
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A nine-member search advisory committee led by Mark J.T. Smith, dean of the Graduate School, has been named to help find the inaugural dean for 
Purdue University's Honors College. The Honors College, approved by the Board of Trustees in 2011, is expected to admit first-year students for fall 2013.
 The college will recruit prospective honors students and provide them with advising, residential learning opportunities and cross-disciplinary opportunities.
 "The dean's primary role is to provide vision and leadership within the new college," said Victor Lechtenberg, acting provost and chief academic officer.
 "The dean will be dedicated to recruiting top-caliber students, promoting and assuring academic excellence and fundraising to support the facilities and programming needs of the college.
" * Michael Harris, associate dean and director of graduate studies in the College of Engineering and professor of chemical engineering.
 The Honors College will build on the University Honors Program, which began in 2004. It started with 60 students and increased to approximately 450 earlier this year.
 Mark J.T. Smith, 765-494-2604, mjts@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/sears-lecture-series-to-present-madeleine-albright-at-purdue.html
<Content> Sears Lecture Series to present Madeleine Albright at Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright will give a lecture at 7 p.m. (doors open at 6 p.m.) Oct. 10 in Purdue University's Elliott Hall of Music.
 The lecture is free and open to the public. Albright served as secretary of state from 1997-2000 after being U.S. ambassador to the United Nations from 1993 through 1996.
 She is currently the Mortara Distinguished Professor of Diplomacy at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service. * No lines may form for entry until 4 p.m.
 on 10/10. Lines will form in a designated area outside of Elliott Hall of Music. * It is not permitted to camp outside a building, including using or bringing chairs, tents, sleeping bags, etc.
 For more information, visit the facilities use policy at http://www.purdue.edu/policies/pages/facilities_lands/i_4_1.html * You may not hold a place in line for others.
 If you wish to sit together as a group, everyone in your party must be present to wait in line. Albright speaks about her life as a young refugee who rose to become the highest-ranking woman in the U.S.
 government at that time. Albright sketches a vivid portrait of her years as secretary of state and offers candid descriptions of her experiences in Washington, D.C.
, and overseas. She also discusses America's global role and the many challenges facing President Barack Obama and other world leaders today on a number of foreign policy issues.
 The Sears Lecture Series is named for the late Purdue historian Louis Martin Sears, who was a faculty member in the then-joint Department of History and Political Science from 1920 until his retirement in 1956.
 Sears specialized in diplomatic history and biography and was the author of numerous books. The lecture series bearing his name is alternately produced by the history and political science departments, in conjunction with 
Purdue Convocations. Note to Journalists: Publication-quality photos are available at http://www.convocations.org/press </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/seminar-on-protecting-digital-technology-intellectual-property-set-for-may-20.html
<Content> Seminar on protecting digital technology intellectual property set for May 20
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Researchers at educational institutions, entrepreneurs, inventors and the general public will learn about protecting digital technology intellectual property during a free seminar May 20 at the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette.
 Charles C. Valauskas of Chicago-based Valauskas Corder LLC will speak during Protecting Digital Technologies: New Cost-Effective Strategies from 11:45 a.m.
 to 1 p.m. ET at the Herman and Heddy Kurz Purdue Technology Center, 1281 Win Hentschel Blvd., West Lafayette. The seminar is hosted by the Purdue 
Office of Technology Commercialization. Valauskas is legal counsel to domestic and foreign companies, new ventures, and universities and research foundations.
 He was the Vice President for Industry Relations for the Association of University Technology Managers and is a former adjunct law professor for intellectual property matters.
 He said the presentation will focus on digital technologies that generate a user interface on a desktop or mobile device. "The presentation will include information about components of digital technologies that are protectable, how to protect them and the associated cost," he said.
 "There will be a review of trade secret, copyright, trademark and patent protection available for these technologies. Design patents and how they can provide protection for user interfaces will also be discussed, along with new aspects of U.S.
 design patent law." To RSVP for the seminar, contact Sally Ross at saross@prf.org by May 15. Seating is limited, and lunch is included.
 The seminar could be broadcast to other sites in the Purdue Research Park network - Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany - if interest is expressed.
 The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology-transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 Sally Ross, 765-588-3490, saross@prf.org</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/sessions-to-explain-2014-medical-plan-options,-review-background.html
<Content> Sessions to explain 2014 medical plan options, review background
 Faculty and staff can increase their knowledge of today’s health care environment and learn more about 2014 medical plan options at sessions Human Resources is presenting in August and September.
 "Health Care: Moving Forward in 2014" reviews dynamics affecting Purdue's medical plans, highlights Purdue's proactive steps to control costs while continuing to provide high-quality, affordable health care for faculty and staff, and gives an overview of all three 2014 medical plan options.
 "Is a High-Deductible Medical Plan Your Best Choice?" covers how a high-deductible medical plan with a health savings account (HSA) works.
 The session explores questions people commonly have when considering a move to a high-deductible medical plan and looks at the advantages of an HSA.
 The sessions are open to all benefits-eligible Purdue employees and their spouses/same-sex domestic partners. Employees may attend in paid status with supervisor approval.
 Pre-registration is not required. For more information on 2014 medical plans, go to www.purdue.edu/benefits, call 49-42222 or send an email to 
hr@purdue.edu. Here are the schedules: Aug. 6 (Tu) -- 9-10:15 a.m., Stewart Center, Room 218AB Aug. 7 (W) -- 1:30-2:45 p.m., Beering Hall, Room 2290
 Aug. 15 (Th) -- 9-10:15 a.m., Lynn Hall, Room G167 Aug. 22 (Th) -- 9-10:15 a.m., Stewart Center, Room 310 Sept. 5 (Th) -- 2-3:15 p.m.
, Freehafer Hall, Room 1-1/1-2 Sept. 9 (M) -- 2:30-3:45 p.m., LILY 2102 Sept. 10 (Tu) -- 11 a.m.-12:15 p.m., Burton Morgan Center, Room 121
 Sept. 13 (F) -- 10-11:15 a.m., Freehafer Hall, Room 1-1/1-2 Sept. 24 (Tu) -- 8:30-9:45 a.m., Neil Armstrong Hall, Room 1109 Aug.
 15 (Th) -- 10:30-11:45 a.m., Lynn Hall, Room G167 Aug. 22 (Th) -- 10:30-11:45 a.m., Stewart Center, Room 310 Sept. 13 (F) -- 1-2:15 p.m.
, Freehafer Hall, Room 1-1/1-2 Sept. 19 (Th) -- 10:30-11:45 a.m., University Hall, Room 017 Sept. 24 (Tu) -- 10-11:15 a.m., Neil Armstrong Hall, Room 1109
 Sept. 25 (W) -- 2-3:15 p.m., Physics Building, Room 331</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/seven-tips-to-help-identify-a-fraudulent-phishing-email.html
<Content> Seven tips to help identify a fraudulent ‘phishing' email
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — More and more sophisticated phishing attempts have led to an increase in the number of individuals at Purdue falling victim to email scams.
 Purdue is able to flag compromised accounts using automatic systems to detect when large volumes of identical emails (1,000 or more recipients in 15 minutes) are sent out.
 During a three-week timespan in July, those systems stopped more than 30,000 SPAM messages from being delivered to more than a million people, said Mike Rubesch, associate vice president of IT infrastructure services.
 Rubesch also says those security measures likely prevented all @purdue.edu email addresses from being blacklisted as a SPAM source by various email hosting services.
 But not all attacks can be prevented. A recent survey released by Halon, an IT security and infrastructure company, found that nearly 9 percent of Americans who received emails containing a virus, spyware or malware opened the attachment and infected their computer.
 "Every day these emails become more targeted and polished, which is why more people are falling for them," says David Shaw, chief information security officer at Purdue.
 "The emails might feature a familiar company's logo and brand, or the link might redirect someone to a site that imitates the appearance of a real website.
 As soon as you log in to one of these spoofed sites, a hacker can view your login credentials and access a number of secured systems before you realize your security has been compromised.
" So how can you distinguish good emails from bad? Below are seven questions to ask when browsing your inbox, which serve as general guidelines for identifying phishing attempts.
 The more red flags you see in an email, the more likely it's not legitimate. 1. Does the message contain general salutations and signatures?
 Most phishing attempts begin with generic phrases like "Greetings valued customer," or "Dear account user." Most legitimate companies, on the other hand, will include an intended recipient's name in their correspondence.
 Another indication of a phishing attempt is a general signature at the end of the message, such as "Messaging Group." 2. Are the URLs legitimate?
 Emails containing Web links should always be questioned. One way to verify a link's legitimacy is to hover your mouse cursor over embedded links and make sure the link uses encryption (https://).
 Also, if the link in the text isn't identical to the URL displayed as the cursor hovers over the link, that's a sure sign it's taking you somewhere you don't want to go.
 Another best practice: open a new browser window and visit a site directly by pasting in its Web address, or URL, rather than simply clicking the link in an email and going wherever it takes you.
 3. Is the sender requesting personal information? Providing personal information through email or by phone in response to an unsolicited request is always a bad idea.
 Messages soliciting passwords, Social Security numbers and other personal information are scams. 4. Is the email asking you to take immediate action?
 Hackers want you to respond without thinking. Phishing emails might even claim a response is required within a short timeframe because your account has been compromised.
 Watch out for language directing you to update an account, download an attachment, visit a website, provide personal information, etc.
 5. Does the message contain suspicious attachments? Legitimate organizations, including Purdue, rarely send attachments via email.
 Opening attachments can cause automatic malware downloads or lead to compromised personal information. High-risk attachment file types include: .exe, .scr.
, .zip, .com, .bat. 6. Is the email making promises that seem too good to be true? Then they probably are. Any message offering to put money in your bank account with a single click is a scam.
 7. Are there misspellings or typos? An email from a legitimate organization should be well-written. Grammar and spelling mistakes are red flags.
 Individuals who recognize a phishing message should delete the email from their inbox and then empty their deleted items folder to avoid accidentally accessing harmful links, Shaw says.
 Individuals also can report a phishing scam attempt to the company that is being spoofed, or notify their company or institution if the email is delivered to a work or academic account.
 Sources: Mike Rubesch, associate vice president of IT infrastructure services, 765-496-8308, mrubesch@purdue.edu SecurePurdue website
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/several-purdue-events-planned-to-celebrate-martin-luther-king-jr..html
<Content> Several Purdue events planned to celebrate Martin Luther King Jr.
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Several activities at Purdue University this month will celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
 The 2013 celebration, with the theme The Fierce Urgency of Now: The Time is Always Right to Do What is Right, will begin Tuesday (Jan.
 15) with Purdue Memorial Union dining services distributing free slices of birthday cake throughout the afternoon. The events have been planned by the Martin Luther King Jr.
 Commemorative Planning Committee, which was appointed by the Office of the Vice Provost for Diversity and Inclusion. Irwin Weiser, dean of the College of Liberal Arts, and Renee Thomas, director of Purdue's Black Cultural Center, co-chair the committee.
 "We have assembled a variety of programs that we think will help people reflect on the life and urgency of Dr. King," Thomas said.
 "The offerings include lectures, service, learning opportunities, discussions, film and music. We are thrilled many academic colleges have also planned programs in tribute to Dr.
 King." One of the highlights will be the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Commemorative Address, from Melissa V. Harris-Perry, host of MSNBC TV's "Melissa Harris-Perry," at 7 p.m.
 Jan. 24 at Loeb Playhouse in Stewart Center. *Jan. 18-21. The Division of Diversity and Inclusion is sponsoring a cultural and justice tour of Washington, D.C.
, which will include visits to museums, the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. monument, and a viewing of the Presidential Inauguration with peers from American University and Georgetown University.
 * Jan. 20. 4 p.m. St. Thomas Aquinas Center, 535 W. State St., West Lafayette. Spiritual Celebration of the Legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King.
 Purdue University and the Inter-Religious Network communities will salute King with songs, readings, reflections and prayer. Purdue alumnus Dr.
 Wallace McLaughlin, President/CEO of the Fathers and Families, will deliver remarks. * Jan. 21. MLK Day of Service, coordinated by Boiler Volunteer Network.
 Open to Purdue students, faculty, staff members and retirees. Volunteers will spend time with community service agencies in Tippecanoe County, including those that work with animals, children, seniors, health care and the homeless.
 Registration is available on the BVN website. *Jan. 23 2 p.m. Fowler Hall. College of Agriculture Special guest Speaker Natasha Bowen, Writer, Activist, Founder: Black Girl Farming Color of Food.
 In addition to her lecture, a photo exhibition of farmers of color will be on exhibit in the Loeb Playhouse atrium. The colleges of Health and Human Sciences and Veterinary Medicine are co-sponsors with the College of Agriculture.
 * Jan. 24. 7 p.m. Loeb Playhouse in Stewart Center. Dr. Martin Luther King Commemorative Address. Perry, the speaker, is a professor of political science at Tulane University, where she is founding director of the Anna Julie Cooper Project on Gender, Race, and Politics in the South.
 She previously served on the faculties of the University of Chicago and Princeton University. She also has written two books, including “Sister Citizen: Shame, Stereotypes and Black Women in America (Yale 2011) and "Barbershops, Bibles, and BET: Everyday Talk and Black Political Thought," which won the 2005 W.E.B.
 Du Bois Book Award from the National Conference of Black Political Scientists and the 2005 Best Book Award from the Race and Ethnic Politics Section of the American Political Science Association.
 Her MSNBC TV show airs from 10 a.m. to noon EST on Saturdays and Sundays. A candlelight vigil sponsored by Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity will proceed the lecture, at 6 p.m.
 participants will meet at the BCC and march to Loeb Playhouse. * Jan. 24. The Purdue Dreamer Award and the Purdue Dream Teacher Award K-12 will be presented at the MLK keynote lecture.
 The Purdue Dreamer Award, established in 2004, is given annually to an individual or organization within the Purdue community to honor contributions that embody Martin Luther King Jr.
's vision of service to others and that further the university's commitment to diversity. The Purdue Dream Teacher Award recognizes a K-12 teacher whose work embodies King Jr.
's message of unity and commitment to improving the lives of others. * Jan. 24. 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., Deans Auditorium in Pfendler Hall.
 Film and Dialogue. The College of Agriculture will host a screening of "Half the Sky: Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide.
" The movie, inspired by a book with the same title by Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn, was filmed in 10 nations and follows Kristof and celebrity activists on a journey to tell stories of inspiring and courageous individuals.
 * Jan. 17-31. Clothing Drive. The Office of Multicultural Programs in the College of Pharmacy is planning a clothing and "Fruit of the Loom" drive.
 Collection boxes will be located throughout the Heine Pharmacy Building. The clothing will be donated to "It's My Closet" at Jefferson High School in Lafayette.
 All clothing of any size will be accepted. Sleepwear, clothing that can be worn to formal dances and unused underwear is especially appreciated.
 Students from the Multicultural Association of Pharmacy Students and SNPhA will deliver the clothes and volunteer at "It's My Closet" as a service learning project.
 *Jan 17 -31. College of Technology will exhibit a banner in tribute to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and encourage students to share their Dreams with the Purdue community.
 * Jan. 29. 7 p.m. Lawson 1142, The College of Science will host a screening of the documentary "BLACK PURDUE," followed by a facilitated discussion.
 Source: Renee Thomas, 765-494-3091, rathomas@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/several-purdue-events-planned-to-celebrate-martin-luther-king-jr..html
<Content> Several Purdue events planned to celebrate Martin Luther King Jr.
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Several activities at Purdue University this month will celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
 The 2013 celebration, with the theme The Fierce Urgency of Now: The Time is Always Right to Do What is Right, will begin Tuesday (Jan.
 15) with Purdue Memorial Union dining services distributing free slices of birthday cake throughout the afternoon. The events have been planned by the Martin Luther King Jr.
 Commemorative Planning Committee, which was appointed by the Office of the Vice Provost for Diversity and Inclusion. Irwin Weiser, dean of the College of Liberal Arts, and Renee Thomas, director of Purdue's Black Cultural Center, co-chair the committee.
 "We have assembled a variety of programs that we think will help people reflect on the life and urgency of Dr. King," Thomas said.
 "The offerings include lectures, service, learning opportunities, discussions, film and music. We are thrilled many academic colleges have also planned programs in tribute to Dr.
 King." One of the highlights will be the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Commemorative Address, from Melissa V. Harris-Perry, host of MSNBC TV's "Melissa Harris-Perry," at 7 p.m.
 Jan. 24 at Loeb Playhouse in Stewart Center. *Jan. 18-21. The Division of Diversity and Inclusion is sponsoring a cultural and justice tour of Washington, D.C.
, which will include visits to museums, the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. monument, and a viewing of the Presidential Inauguration with peers from American University and Georgetown University.
 * Jan. 20. 4 p.m. St. Thomas Aquinas Center, 535 W. State St., West Lafayette. Spiritual Celebration of the Legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King.
 Purdue University and the Inter-Religious Network communities will salute King with songs, readings, reflections and prayer. Purdue alumnus Dr.
 Wallace McLaughlin, President/CEO of the Fathers and Families, will deliver remarks. * Jan. 21. MLK Day of Service, coordinated by Boiler Volunteer Network.
 Open to Purdue students, faculty, staff members and retirees. Volunteers will spend time with community service agencies in Tippecanoe County, including those that work with animals, children, seniors, health care and the homeless.
 Registration is available on the BVN website. *Jan. 23 2 p.m. Fowler Hall. College of Agriculture Special guest Speaker Natasha Bowen, Writer, Activist, Founder: Black Girl Farming Color of Food.
 In addition to her lecture, a photo exhibition of farmers of color will be on exhibit in the Loeb Playhouse atrium. The colleges of Health and Human Sciences and Veterinary Medicine are co-sponsors with the College of Agriculture.
 * Jan. 24. 7 p.m. Loeb Playhouse in Stewart Center. Dr. Martin Luther King Commemorative Address. Perry, the speaker, is a professor of political science at Tulane University, where she is founding director of the Anna Julie Cooper Project on Gender, Race, and Politics in the South.
 She previously served on the faculties of the University of Chicago and Princeton University. She also has written two books, including “Sister Citizen: Shame, Stereotypes and Black Women in America (Yale 2011) and "Barbershops, Bibles, and BET: Everyday Talk and Black Political Thought," which won the 2005 W.E.B.
 Du Bois Book Award from the National Conference of Black Political Scientists and the 2005 Best Book Award from the Race and Ethnic Politics Section of the American Political Science Association.
 Her MSNBC TV show airs from 10 a.m. to noon EST on Saturdays and Sundays. A candlelight vigil sponsored by Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity will proceed the lecture, at 6 p.m.
 participants will meet at the BCC and march to Loeb Playhouse. * Jan. 24. The Purdue Dreamer Award and the Purdue Dream Teacher Award K-12 will be presented at the MLK keynote lecture.
 The Purdue Dreamer Award, established in 2004, is given annually to an individual or organization within the Purdue community to honor contributions that embody Martin Luther King Jr.
's vision of service to others and that further the university's commitment to diversity. The Purdue Dream Teacher Award recognizes a K-12 teacher whose work embodies King Jr.
's message of unity and commitment to improving the lives of others. * Jan. 24. 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., Deans Auditorium in Pfendler Hall.
 Film and Dialogue. The College of Agriculture will host a screening of "Half the Sky: Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide.
" The movie, inspired by a book with the same title by Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn, was filmed in 10 nations and follows Kristof and celebrity activists on a journey to tell stories of inspiring and courageous individuals.
 * Jan. 17-31. Clothing Drive. The Office of Multicultural Programs in the College of Pharmacy is planning a clothing and "Fruit of the Loom" drive.
 Collection boxes will be located throughout the Heine Pharmacy Building. The clothing will be donated to "It's My Closet" at Jefferson High School in Lafayette.
 All clothing of any size will be accepted. Sleepwear, clothing that can be worn to formal dances and unused underwear is especially appreciated.
 Students from the Multicultural Association of Pharmacy Students and SNPhA will deliver the clothes and volunteer at "It's My Closet" as a service learning project.
 *Jan 17 -31. College of Technology will exhibit a banner in tribute to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and encourage students to share their Dreams with the Purdue community.
 * Jan. 29. 7 p.m. Lawson 1142, The College of Science will host a screening of the documentary "BLACK PURDUE," followed by a facilitated discussion.
 Source: Renee Thomas, 765-494-3091, rathomas@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/signature-of-long-sought-particle-that-could-revolutionize-quantum-computing-seen-by-purdue-physicist.html
<Content> Signature of long-sought particle that could revolutionize quantum computing seen by Purdue physicist
 Signature of long-sought particle that could revolutionize quantum computing seen by Purdue physicist WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University physicist has observed evidence of long-sought Majorana fermions, special particles that could unleash the potential of fault-tolerant quantum computing.
 Leonid Rokhinson, an associate professor of physics, led a team that is the first to successfully demonstrate the fractional a.c.
 Josephson effect, which is a signature of the particles. "The search for this particle is for condensed-matter physicists what the Higgs boson search was for high-energy particle physicists," Rokhinson said.
 "It is a very peculiar object because it is a fermion yet it is its own antiparticle with zero mass and zero charge." The pursuit of Majorana fermions is driven by their potential to encode quantum information in a way that solves a problem dogging quantum computing.
 The current carriers of quantum bits, the basic unit of information in quantum computing, are delicate and easily destroyed by small disturbances from the local environment.
 Information stored through Majorana fermions could be protected from such perturbances, resulting in a much more resilient quantum bit and 'fault-tolerant' quantum computing, he said.
 "Information could be stored not in the individual particles, but in their relative configuration, so that if one particle is pushed a little by a local force, it doesn't matter," Rokhinson said.
 "As long as that local noise is not so strong that it alters the overall configuration of a group of particles, the information is retained.
 It offers an entirely new way of dealing with information." Majorana fermions also have the unique ability to retain a history of their interactions that can be used to encode quantum information, he said.
 "Other particles are interchangeable and if two electrons trade places, it is as if nothing had happened, but when you swap two Majorana fermions, it leaves a mark by altering their quantum mechanical state," Rokhinson said.
 "This change in state is like a passport book full of stamps and provides a record of exactly how the particle arrived at its current destination.
" Rokhinson observed a variation of the Josephson effect that is a unique signature of Majorana fermions. The effect describes the way an electrical current traveling between two superconductors oscillates at a frequency that depends on the applied voltage.
 The reverse also is true; an oscillating current generates specific voltage, proportional to the frequency. In the presence of Majorana fermions the frequency-voltage relationship should change by a factor of two in what is called the fractional a.c.
 Josephson effect, he said. Rokhinson used a one-dimensional semiconductor coupled to a superconductor to create a hybrid nanowire in which Majorana particles are predicted to form at the ends.
 When alternating current is applied through a set of two such wires, a specific voltage is generated across the device, which Rokhinson measured.
 As a magnetic field was applied and varied from weak to strong, the resulting steps in voltage became twice as tall, a signature of the formation of Majorana particles, he said.
 Victor Yakovenko, a professor of physics at the University of Maryland, was one of the first theorists to predict the fractional a.c.
 Josephson effect. The effect is very unusual and is specific to Majorana particles, which makes this observation more definitive than signatures obtained through other approaches, he said.
 "Majorana particles are the only particle that can produce this effect, and experimental observation of it is a tremendous breakthrough," Yakovenko said.
 "Of course, it will take time and independent confirmation to firmly establish it, but this is very exciting." The observation of this special state does not mean fault-tolerant quantum computing will happen any time soon, if at all, Yakovenko said.
 "Whether or not these particles will work for quantum computing has yet to be seen, but in the process of trying we will learn a lot of unknown quantum physics," he said.
 "This could open the door to a whole new field of the topological effects of quantum mechanics." A paper detailing the work will be published in the next issue of the journal 
Nature Physics and is currently available online. Co-authors include Xinyu Liu and Jacek Furdyna of the University of Notre Dame, who designed the material specifically for these experiments.
 Furdyna also has an honorary degree from Purdue. The work was partially supported by grants from the Army Research Office and the National Science Foundation.
 Rokhinson next plans to perform follow-up experiments and to modify the system to probe different properties of the observed state.
 The Fractional ac Josephson Effect in a Semiconductor-Superconductor Nanowire as a Signature of Majorana Particles Topological superconductors that support Majorana fermions have been predicted when one-dimensional semiconducting wires are coupled to a superconductor.
 Such excitations are expected to exhibit non-Abelian statistics and can be used to realize quantum gates that are topologically protected from local sources of decoherence.
 Here we report the observation of the fractional a.c. Josephson effect in a hybrid semiconductor-superconductor InSb/Nb nanowire junction, a hallmark of topological matter.
 When the junction is irradiated with a radio frequency f0 in the absence of an external magnetic field, quantized voltage steps (Shapiro steps) with a height &#8710;V=hf
0/2e are observed, as is expected for conventional superconductor junctions, where the supercurrent is carried by charge-2e Cooper pairs.
 At high magnetic fields the height of the first Shapiro step is doubled to hf0/e, suggesting that the supercurrent is carried by charge-e quasiparticles.
 This is a unique signature of the Majorana fermions, predicted almost 80 years ago. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/simulations-aiding-study-of-earthquake-dampers-for-structures.html
<Content> Simulations aiding study of earthquake dampers for structures
 Earthquake-engineering researches at the Harbin Institute of Technology in China work to set up a structure on a shake table for experiments to study the effects of earthquakes.
 Purdue University civil engineering students are working with counterparts at the institute to study the reliability of models for testing a type of powerful damping system that might be installed in buildings and bridges to reduce structural damage and injuries during earthquakes.
 (Photo courtesy of Harbin Institute of Technology) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Researchers have demonstrated the reliability and efficiency of "real-time hybrid simulation" for testing a type of powerful damping system that might be installed in buildings and bridges to reduce structural damage and injuries during earthquakes.
 The magnetorheological-fluid dampers are shock-absorbing devices containing a liquid that becomes far more viscous when a magnetic field is applied.
 "It normally feels like a thick fluid, but when you apply a magnetic field it transforms into a peanut-butter consistency, which makes it generate larger forces when pushed through a small orifice," said Shirley Dyke, a professor of mechanical engineering and civil engineering at Purdue University.
 This dramatic increase in viscosity enables the devices to exert powerful forces and to modify a building's stiffness in response to motion during an earthquake.
 The magnetorheological-fluid dampers, or MR dampers, have seen limited commercial use and are not yet being used routinely in structures.
 Research led by Dyke and doctoral students Gaby Ou and Ali Ozdagli has now shown real-time hybrid simulations are reliable in studying the dampers.
 The research is affiliated with the National Science Foundation's George E. Brown Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation
 (NEES), a shared network of laboratories based at Purdue. Dyke and her students are working with researchers at the Harbin Institute of Technology in China, home to one of only a few large-scale shake-table facilities in the world.
 Findings will be discussed during the NEES Quake Summit 2013 on Aug. 7-8 in Reno. A research paper also was presented in May during a meeting in Italy related to a consortium called SERIES (Seismic Engineering Research Infrastructures for European Synergies).
 The paper was authored by Ou, Dyke, Ozdagli, and researchers Bin Wu and Bo Li from the Harbin Institute. "The results indicate that the real-time hybrid simulation concept can be considered as a reliable and efficient testing method," Ou said.
 The simulations are referred to as hybrid because they combine computational models with data from physical tests. Researchers are able to perform structural tests at slow speed, but testing in real-time – or the actual speed of an earthquake – sheds new light on how the MR dampers perform in structures.
 The real-time ability has only recently become feasible due to technological advances in computing. "Sometimes real-time testing is necessary, and that's where we focus our efforts," said Dyke, who organized a workshop on the subject to be held during the NEES meeting in Reno.
 "This hybrid approach is taking off lately. People are getting very excited about it." Ozdagli also is presenting related findings next week during the 2013 Conference of the ASCE Engineering Mechanics Institute in Evanston, Ill.
 The simulations can be performed in conjunction with research using full-scale building tests. However, there are very few large-scale facilities in the world, and the testing is time-consuming and expensive.
 "The real-time hybrid simulations allow you to do many tests to prepare for the one test using a full-scale facility," Dyke said.
 "The nice thing is that you can change the numerical model any way you want. You can make it a four-story structure one day and the next day it's a 10-story structure.
 You can test an unlimited number of cases with a single physical setup." The researchers will present two abstracts during the Reno meeting.
 One focuses on how the simulation method has been improved and the other describes the overall validation of real-time hybrid simulations.
 To prove the reliability of the approach the researchers are comparing pure computational models, pure physical shake-table tests and then the real-time hybrid simulation.
 Research results from this three-way comparison are demonstrating that the hybrid simulations are accurate. Ou has developed a mathematical approach to cancel out "noise" that makes it difficult to use testing data.
 She combined mathematical tools for a new "integrated control strategy" for the hybrid simulation. "She found that by integrating several techniques in the right mix you can get better performance than in prior tests," Dyke said.
 "It's a viable method that can be used by other researchers for many different purposes and in many different laboratories," Dyke said.
 Much of the research is based at Purdue's Robert L. and Terry L. Bowen Laboratory for Large-Scale Civil Engineering Research and has been funded by the NSF through NEES.
 A portion is supported by the Sohmen Fund, an endowment established by Purdue alumnus Anna Pao Sohmen to facilitate faculty and student exchange with the Harbin Institute of Technology and Ningbo University.
 The fund is managed by International Programs at Purdue. Note to Journalists: Information about the NEES annual Quake Summit 2013 is available at 
http://nees.org/quakesummit2013. An electronic copy of the SERIES research paper is available from Emil Venere, 765-494-4709, venere@purdue.edu
 Real-Time Hybrid Simulation performs substructure test in real-time scale and includes rate dependent feature in consideration. One major challenge for RTHS is that it requires accurate and prompt execution of boundary condition that is calculated from numerical substructure.
 In most cases, traditional PID control induces large time lag between desired command and response which may cause system instability and further the failure of the test.
 Many control strategies for servo hydraulic actuator-structure system have been proposed recently to compensate such time lag and other system dynamics.
 This presentation introduces a new integrated control strategy into RTHS. The new proposed algorithm integrates three key control components; first, a loop shaping feedback control based on H-âˆ&#382; optimization, second the Kalman filter for feedback estimation and a pure delay feed-forward block for control performance enhancement.
 The combination of the aforementioned blocks provides flexible performance according to different control evaluation criterion. RIAC has been applied for displacement tracking through RTHS of a 3DOF steel structure with equipped magnetorheological (MR) damper located in Harbin, China.
 The experimental components herein is the MR damper attached to a large scale actuator has maximum force capacity of 2000N, the numerical substructure is the rest of the steel structure.
 Real-time Hybrid Simulation (RTHS) enables physical testing of critical sub-structural elements in a cost-effective way, compared to other existing test methods such as shake-table or pseudo-dynamic testing.
 As RTHS methodologies develop, there is still a pressing need to assure growing interest from the civil engineering community seeking validation.
 To meet community expectations and reveal the feasibility of RTHS, an international multi-university research project has been proposed focusing on verification of RTHS with shake table tests.
 The development and implementation of the comparison tests comprise the following tasks: (1) a 3.6 meters tall three story 3-D steel frame structure with base plan dimension of 1.84 m by 2.04 m - located in Structural and Seismic Test Center at Harbin Institute of Technology, China - was selected to be tested on the shake table; (2) a 2500 N capacity magneto-rheological (MR) fluid damper was attached to the first floor of the frame as the main energy dissipation device; (3) the integrated system was tested on the shake table under various earthquake inputs, and analytical simulations were developed for the comparison basis; (4) for the RTHS scheme, the system was divided into physical and numerical components.
 The steel structure was modeled as the numerical substructure whereas the MR damper was chosen as the physical component as it allows test repeatability without compromising system integrity.
 A 2500 kN capacity actuator is used as the transfer interface between physical and numerical substructure. Accuracy of numerical models, performance of MR damper controllers and data quality of RTHS are evaluated through comparisons with shake table structural responses.
 The results indicate that the RTHS concept can be considered as a reliable and efficient testing method. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/skip-jackson-dog-jog-brings-canines-to-campus-sept.-22.html
<Content> Skip Jackson Dog Jog brings canines to campus Sept. 22
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The Purdue University College of Veterinary Medicine's first Dr. Skip Jackson Dog Jog will be Sept. 22.
 "The new event combines the annual Skip Jackson Road Race, a fun run that was always held in conjunction with the College of Veterinary Medicine's annual fall conference for veterinarians and veterinary technicians, with the student-run Dog Jog," said Emily Rudman, a Purdue veterinary student in the class of 2014.
 "Since the entire fall conference will be held on the Purdue campus this year, we wanted to do an event that is open to the public and embraces the rich tradition and history of Purdue Veterinary Medicine.
" Horace "Skip" Jackson is professor emeritus of veterinary physiology and biochemistry, and until recently had run every year since the race's inception in 1972.
 Runners and dogs can still sign up to participate in the dog jog, which will begin at 8 a.m. at the college's "Continuum" sculpture at Lynn Hall on Harrison Street.
 The course is entirely on the Purdue campus. Onsite registration is 7-8 a.m. Sept. 22 at the entrance of Lynn Hall, 625 Harrison St.
 The price for the race is $20 for people, which includes a T-shirt, and $5 for each dog, which includes a bandana. All proceeds will go to PetSafe, a Purdue Veterinary Medicine program that provides veterinary care and housing for animals owned by families in crisis.
 The event is sponsored by McAfee Animal Hospital, a veterinary practice run by Purdue Veterinary Medicine graduate Larry McAfee of Valparaiso, Ind.
 Kevin Doerr, director of alumni relations and public affairs for the College of Veterinary Medicine, 765-494-8216, doerrkr@purdue.edu
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/smartphone-apps-new-function-provides-daily-variable-rate-recommendations-to-optimize-corn-yield.html
<Content> Smartphone app's new function provides daily variable rate recommendations to optimize corn yield
 Smartphone app's new function provides daily variable rate recommendations to optimize corn yield The Solver function on the Optimizer 2.0 smartphone app provides daily variable rate recommendations to farmers and crop advisers to maximize corn yield in each zone of their farm.
 Optimizer 2.0 is commercialized by Advanced Ag Solutions LLC, a Purdue Research Park affiliate. (Advanced Ag Solutions LLC image) 
Download Photo LAFAYETTE, Ind., and WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - An agronomy firm whose smartphone application uses GPS soil testing data and National Weather Service rainfall data to estimate corn yield and determine the most limiting factor will launch a new function on the app.
 The new "Solver" function from Advanced Ag Solutions LLC can provide growers and crop advisers the ability to download daily recommendations that can be used to control product rates in the field.
 It is part of the company's Optimizer 2.0 app, which is a finalist in the Innovation of the Year category of the 2013 TechPoint Mira awards.
 Company President Daryl Starr said Solver automatically provides new variable rate recommendations every night. "We check every attribute of crop growth against every other attribute to determine which is the most limiting.
 Then we try an adjusted rate of the most limiting factor and look again at every attribute," he said. "If another factor needs to be adjusted, we fix it and check again until crop yields are maximized.
 This translates into an optimized recommendation for every zone of every field, every night, based on the weather, cropping practices and the intentions of the farmer.
" Product rates can be downloaded into a file that can be taken to the field in a tractor and applied. "We are using massive amounts of data in proprietary algorithms to streamline the decision process and provide insights throughout the growing cycle," Starr said.
 "Our objective is to help farmers grow more corn that helps feed the growing worldwide population." Farmers and crop advisers interested in Optimizer 2.0's Solver function can visit 
http://www.optmzr.co/software.php#vr-seed to learn more. Advanced Ag Solutions is an affiliate of the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette.
 Advanced Ag Solutions specializes in helping high-tech, progressive farmers grow their business through precision agronomic and economic data collection, analysis and consulting.
 The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country in four locations across Indiana.
 The parks are home to nearly 240 companies that employ more than 4,200 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/software-developer,-entrepreneur-to-speak-about-micro-enterprises-it-needs-aug.-14.html
<Content> Software developer, entrepreneur to speak about micro-enterprises' IT needs Aug. 14
 INDIANAPOLIS - Business leaders in the software and information technology sectors can learn about micro-enterprises, or very small business organizations, and their IT needs during a presentation at 12:30 p.m.
 EDT Tuesday (Aug. 14). David Christiansen, founder of TechDarkSide.com and TroopTrack.com, will speak about "Make It Little: Building a Successful Company in a Micro-Economy" at the Purdue Technology Center of Indianapolis, 5225 Exploration Drive.
 The presentation is sponsored by the Purdue Research Park Software Development Cluster, a group of professional software developers who meet monthly to discuss industry topics.
 The presentation is free and open to the public and will be broadcast simultaneously to the other sites in the Purdue Research Park network:
 Christiansen says micro-enterprises and larger business organizations often have similar IT needs. "There are thousands of micro-enterprises that need products and services tailored to their needs and the business opportunities for tech-savvy entrepreneurs are endless," he said.
 Christiansen has focused on building management software for scouting operations the past four years, and he will talk about his experiences during the presentation.
 "I'll share my definition of a micro-enterprise, how to identify a micro-enterprise worth pursuing and lessons I've learned as I try to build, market, support and sell the best scouting software on the planet," he said.
 The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation program in the country. The park's four Indiana sites are in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 The nearly 200 companies located in the park network employ about 4,000 people. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/soul-food-dinner-and-film-screening-cap-off-black-history-month-at-purdue.html
<Content> Soul food dinner and film screening cap off Black History Month at Purdue
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - As part of Black History Month, the Purdue University Black Cultural Center, Purdue Housing and Food Services and the Black Caucus of Faculty and Staff will present a night of soul food and film starting at 5 p.m.
 Feb. 27 at the Hillenbrand Dining Court Atrium. Students without a meal plan and the general public can pay $11.75 for a soul food dinner from the Hillenbrand Dining Court and a screening of "The Great Debaters.
" There is no cost for students with a meal plan. The dinner will include Dixie crunch catfish, chicken gumbo soup, sweet potato casserole, baby back ribs and sweet potato pie.
 Attendees are encouraged to get dinner at 5 p.m. before the screening of the movie begins at 5:30 p.m. in the Hillenbrand Atrium.
 Inspired by a true story, the "The Great Debaters" showcases the non-traditional teaching methods of debate team coach professor Melvin Toslon.
 Tolson turned a small group of debaters from an African-American college in the Deep South into an elite debate team. Following the film, Cornelius Bynum, associate professor of history at Purdue, will lead a discussion about social issues highlighted in the movie.
 "Many of the topics addressed in the film are not often talked about in public settings," said BCC director Renee Thomas. "This will present a unique dialogue on Purdue's campus to discuss controversial issues facing American society today.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/south-shore-clean-cities-to-promote-clean-diesel-at-upcoming-events.html
<Content> South Shore Clean Cities to promote clean diesel at upcoming events
 MERRILLVILLE, Ind. - South Shore Clean Cities Inc. and the Indiana Clean Diesel Coalition have created events in northern Indiana to promote the use of clean diesel.
 Private and public entities that operate diesel fleets and related equipment that serve public needs are invited to attend. Carl Lisek, South Shore Clean Cities executive director, said the most important aspect to clean diesel is reducing emissions from diesel engines.
 "This can be done by installing catalytic convertors or diesel oxidation catalysts," he said. "There also are special engines that sense when a vehicle is idling, which makes it switch to a lower output mode.
" * Monday (April 22), 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Eastern time, St. Joseph County Library, 304 S. Main St., South Bend * May 2, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.
 Central time, Purdue University Calumet Student Union Library Building, 2200 169th St., Hammond * May 8, 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Eastern time, Allen County Public Library, 900 Library Plaza, Fort Wayne
 Representatives from the Indiana Department of Environmental Management will announce DieselWise Indiana grant opportunities for projects designed to reduce diesel emissions significantly across northern Indiana.
 Lisek said presentations focus specifically on improving air quality by reducing diesel emissions. "Attendees will learn about the Indiana Clean Diesel Coalition and some of its recent projects," he said.
 "There will be information about the health effects of diesel emissions, alternative-fuel vehicles, fuel conservation strategies, and providers of diesel emission reduction technology that has been verified and certified by the U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency." Designated as the 71st Clean Cities Coalition on June 15, 1999, South Shore Clean Cities Inc. was founded on the principle that motivated individuals working together for common goals best accomplish our nation's objectives.
 In almost 100 coalitions, government agencies and private companies voluntarily form partnerships that meet the objectives of improving air quality, developing regional economic opportunities and reducing the use of imported oil.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Carl Lisek, 219-644-3690, southshorecleancities@gmail.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/soybean-producers-should-id-foliar-diseases,-consider-management-options.html
<Content> Soybean producers should ID foliar diseases, consider management options
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A variety of foliar diseases have shown up in soybean fields across Indiana this season and need to be correctly identified before producers consider control options, a Purdue Extension plant pathologist says.
 Moderate temperatures, moisture and humidity have led to many foliar diseases appearing in certain areas of Indiana. "We're seeing increased levels of diseases such as bacterial blight, downy mildew, and, in some cases, there's brown spot in the lower canopy," Kiersten Wise said.
 "Growers may be concerned about these diseases, but, in most cases, these particular diseases are of minor economic importance."
 Symptoms for both bacterial blight and brown spot include brown to black lesions on leaf surfaces. Bacterial blight lesions are angular and surrounded by a yellow ring or halo, and they may have a water-soaked appearance.
 Symptoms usually are present only in the upper canopy. The affected areas of leaf tissue will often drop out, giving plant leaves a tattered appearance.
 Brown spot lesions usually remain in the lower canopy of the plant but can sometimes spread to upper leaves. They might have yellow halos, and affected leaves will usually turn yellow as the disease progresses.
 Symptoms and signs of downy mildew are pale green to yellow spots on upper leaf surfaces and tufts of gray spores on lower leaf surfaces during moist conditions.
 Sometimes producers also might notice white fungal growth on the interiors of soybean pods. With all three diseases, management options include crop rotation, plowing under crop residue and, in some cases, fungicide application.
 "If you're going to apply a fungicide, you want to make sure you get a good disease diagnosis first," Wise said. She said fungicides will not control bacterial blight, and that commonly used fungicides are not labeled for use on downy mildew.
 It's also important to properly identify soybean diseases so producers know which fields are most susceptible to which diseases.
 Tillage and planting less susceptible varieties can help lower the risk of diseases developing in future soybean crops. Wise said another foliar disease, frogeye leaf spot, also is present in some Indiana fields.
 This disease is significant because it can reduce yields when present at high levels. Disease symptoms include brown to gray circular spots on leaves that are surrounded by purple halos.
 Fungicides can be used to control frogeye leaf spot, but producers should consider the timing of disease onset, level of disease within a field, plant growth stage and variety susceptibility before deciding on an application.
 "If you are going to apply a fungicide for frogeye management, it's important to avoid applying any solo strobilurin fungicides," Wise said.
 Some populations of frogeye leaf spot might be resistant to strobilurin fungicides, meaning they cannot be managed by those fungicides.
 "We want to avoid and delay resistance from building up in fields, so we would recommend applying triazole fungicides or triazole-strobilurin mixes to fields that have frogeye leaf spot," Wise said.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/speech-clinicians-get-tools-to-help-children-who-stutter-deal-with-bullying.html
<Content> Speech clinicians get tools to help children who stutter deal with bullying
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Each year speech-language pathologists provide strategies to help thousands of children manage their stuttering, but these clinicians may not be trained to help deal with the bullying these children often face, says a Purdue University expert.
 "Stuttering therapy should be about more than speech motor patterns because there are often many negative attitudes and feelings, especially for children, that need to be addressed," said William Murphy, clinical professor emeritus in the Department of Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences and a speech-language pathologist who is a co-author of the recently published workbook "Minimizing Bullying for Children Who Stutter: A Practical Guide for Speech-Language Pathologists.
" "Bullying often comes up, and clinicians don't always have the experience to deal with this issue, so we hope this series helps to better prepare professionals," Murphy said.
 "The book, which we believe is the first of its kind, provides tips, worksheets and guidelines on how to help children think differently about stuttering and empower them.
 Many of the activities are based on the idea that children who stutter are the experts on stuttering, and some ideas include having the children teach their parents or teachers how to stutter or make a home movie about stuttering.
" Murphy developed the book and its companion workbooks with Robert W. Quesal, a speech-language pathologist and professor from Western Illinois University; Nina A.
 Reeves, a speech-language pathologist from Dallas; and J. Scott Yaruss, a speech-language pathologist and associate professor at the University of Pittsburgh.
 The book is $26, and the three companion workbooks for parents, teachers and children are $8 each. The books are published by Stuttering Therapy Resources Inc.
 and available at http://www.stutteringtherapyresources.com/ Ten percent of the proceeds will be donated to the National Stuttering Association.
 This new series is based on the 2004 "Bullying and Teasing: Helping Children Who Stutter." Stuttering can be seen as involuntary hesitations, sound prolongations or repetition of syllables in speech.
 About 1 percent of the world's adult population stutters, which can affect social interactions, educational performance and job opportunities.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/speech-expert-michael-j.-fox-show-could-speak-up-for-parkinsons-patients,-families.html
<Content> Speech expert: Michael J. Fox show could speak up for Parkinson's patients, families
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Little is said about speech and communication issues for Parkinson's disease patients, but a Purdue University expert hopes the new Michael J.
 Fox TV show will speak up about these topics. "Communication issues with Parkinson's patients do not get enough attention," says Jessica Huber, an associate professor of speech, language and hearing sciences who studies how the degenerative neurological disease affects speech.
 "A television show with a star with Parkinson's disease speaking, laughing and acting could better help everyone understand the challenges and ways that people with Parkinson's cope with communicating.
" "The Michael J. Fox Show," about a TV anchor with Parkinson's disease returning to work, premiers on Sept. 26 on NBC. Parkinson's affects 1.5 million people in the United States, and most of those with the disease experience communication problems often related to how loudly or clearly they speak.
 Even with so many patients reporting speech problems, Huber says, the focus is often on the disease's challenges related to mobility and balance.
 In addition to general speech, two other themes Huber hopes to see with the show are humor and non-speech issues such as facial expressions and vocal inflection.
 "There are funny things about how communication breaks down in everyday life," Huber says. "People repair it and move on, but the stakes are higher when people are affected with Parkinson's.
 People are afraid to ask for a clarification or admit they can't understand, so how will this play into the show's storylines? Some Parkinson's patients often lose control of their facial expressions, which are often key to making jokes.
 They also can struggle with inflection of voice, so again, will these influence this comedy?" Huber also says that the show is likely to be educational, but it also won't represent the experiences of all people with Parkinson's disease.
 * The role of caregivers who are often in the background. "And if there is one thing that needs to be emphasized, it's that caregivers have to take care of themselves.
 There is this stigma with care situations that the family member is not doing right unless caring for their loved one constantly.
" * Exercise and activity. "Patients need to be active in a space they find safe and comfortable. Movement issues can be mediated through activity so it can be very beneficial.
 Often people are deterred because they are afraid of falling." * Accurate information for people who don't have Parkinson's disease.
 "The numbers with this disease are growing, in part because of better early-diagnosis and a larger aging population. But people can expect they will become more familiar with it.
" "The patients I work with often say that Michael J. Fox is very inspirational, and I'm really excited about this show," Huber says.
 "I want people with Parkinson's and their families to see that the disease is not a death sentence. There are treatment options, and you can live a good life.
 Life won't be the same, but it is not the end." Huber, who also is a member of Purdue's Women's Global Health Institute, has invented SpeechVive, a device that cues Parkinson's patients to speak louder and clearer.
 The device, which rests in the patient's ear, provides a stream of noise similar to the background chatter at a party, cueing the patient to naturally talk louder and clearer.
 This response is known as the Lombard Effect. Her company, SpeechVive Inc., will launch the device into the market in January 2014.
 Huber also is working with scientists in the Department of Health and Kinesiology to study treatments aimed at improving gait and balance in people with Parkinson's disease.
 Department of Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/spensa-technologies-wins-2013-biocrossroads-new-venture-competition.html
<Content> Spensa Technologies wins 2013 BioCrossroads New Venture Competition
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A firm based in the Purdue Research Park was named the top company among seven finalists Oct. 21 in the 2013 BioCrossroads New Venture Competition during the Life Sciences Summit reception in Indianapolis.
 Spensa Technologies Inc. designs, develops and delivers novel technologies for the agricultural industry that reduce labor, foster eco-friendly farming and enhance production efficiency.
 Its first two products include MyTraps.com, a software platform that streamlines the pest control monitoring process, and Z-Traps, a fully automated field system for insect population monitoring.
 Johnny Park, president and CEO, also is a Purdue alumnus and research assistant professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering
. "The BioCrossroads New Venture Competition is one of the most prestigious competitions in the state, and this recognition strengthens our resolve to create technologies that will benefit the agriculture industry," he said.
 "We will continue to commercialize and market MyTraps.com and Z-Traps, which already are being sold in Europe, United States, Australia and South America.
" In addition to a cash prize of $25,000, Spensa Technologies will have access to the Indiana Seed Fund II staff and the fund's network of resources to provide business planning and early-stage strategic support.
 Company officials also will have the opportunity to make a presentation to the ILSFII investment committee for added exposure. Greg Deason, vice president and executive director of 
Purdue Foundry, said the success of companies like Spensa Technologies demonstrates the strength and depth of the entrepreneurial ecosystem at Purdue University, Purdue Research Park, Purdue Foundry and other organizations.
 * Nutrabiotix LLC - A company based on research by Bruce Hamaker, the Roy L. Whistler Chair in Carbohydrate Science in Purdue's Department of Food Science, and Dr.
 Ali Keshavarzian, the Josephine M. Dyrenfort Chairperson in Gastroenterology at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, that is advancing a designer fiber to help people affected by irritable bowel syndrome.
 The company recently received a two-year SBIR Phase II grant worth $2.5 million from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, which is part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the U.S.
 Department of Health and Human Services. * Tymora Analytical Operations LLC - A company founded by W. Andy Tao, associate professor in biochemistry, and Anton Iliuk, a Purdue post-doctoral fellow, that provides nanotechnology-based products to serve the life sciences market.
 The company recently received a $150,000 SBIR Phase 1 Grant to further develop their technology. * Bearing Analytics LLC - A company founded by Purdue students that could improve the operations of energy-generating devices and help manufacturers increase bearing life in machinery.
 The company recently won $100,000 by winning the student division of the 2013 Clean Energy Challenge through the U.S. Department of Energy.
 Purdue's other patented technologies include new cancer treatments, alternative fuels, biomedical devices, agriculture innovations and others that are available for licensing through the 
Office of Technology Commercialization. For more information, call 765-588-3475, email otcip@prf.org. Spensa Technologies is a startup housed in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette.
 The company was founded in 2009 by Johnny Park, president and CEO. Spensa's mission is to design, develop and deliver novel technologies for the agricultural industry that will reduce reliance on manual labor, foster eco-friendly farming and enhance crop production efficiency.
 Their technologies leverage the team's world-leading expertise in wireless sensor networks, robotics and computer vision. Based in Discovery Park's Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, the Foundry enhances the outstanding activities already taking place in the facility. The Foundry supports faculty, staff and student innovators in all Purdue colleges and departments, and actively engages outside businesses and investors to encourage collaborative research and startup development.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 240 companies that employ about 4,500 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/startup-services,-collaboration-opportunities-offered-at-upcoming-purdue-foundry-open-house.html
<Content> Startup services, collaboration opportunities offered at upcoming Purdue Foundry open house
 Tim Peoples, Purdue Foundry entrepreneur-in-residence, counsels Laurie Parker, assistant professor of medicinal chemistry and molecular pharmacology, and Steve Ouellette, graduate research assistant in medicinal chemistry and molecular pharmacology, on entrepreneurship and licensing opportunities in the Purdue Foundry in the Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship. (Purdue Research Foundation photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – The Purdue Foundry (purduefoundry.com), an entrepreneurship and commercialization hub at Purdue University, will provide information on its startup services at its open house from 3 to 5 p.m.
 Sept. 4 in the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship, 1201 West State St., West Lafayette, Ind. The foundry, which opened this summer, is geared to provide a more integrated approach to support entrepreneurs and move Purdue innovations from the university to the market.
 "We are providing Purdue entrepreneurs with the resources and information that they need to be successful," said Greg Deason, executive director of the Purdue Foundry.
 "One of our goals is to increase the number of startups from Purdue faculty, staff and student innovators who have an interest in forming a company or want to license their discoveries.
" The foundry will collaborate with longstanding activities already taking place in the Burton D. Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship such as business plan competitions and the Purdue Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation program.
 The Purdue Foundry also will form partnerships with outside organizations such as Elevate Ventures, an Indianapolis-based startup support firm, to assist Purdue innovators.
 For more information on Purdue's patented innovations including new cancer treatments, alternative fuels, biomedical devices, agriculture innovations and others that are available for licensing through the Office of Technology Commercialization, call 765-588-3475, email 
otcip@prf.org or visit www.otc-prf.org/otc. Source: Greg Deason, (765) 588-5254, gwdeason@prf.org </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/state-fair-is-showtime-for-purdue-college-of-veterinary-medicine.html
<Content> State Fair is showtime for Purdue College of Veterinary Medicine
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Cats and dogs will help give lessons in animal health, including the benefits of spaying and neutering, during the Indiana 
State Fair. For the 28th year, the Purdue University College of Veterinary Medicine is working with the Indiana Veterinary Medical Association to demonstrate surgical procedures daily during the fair, which runs Friday (Aug.
 3) through Aug. 19 in Indianapolis. The surgeries will be in a new location this year, the Ag/Hort Pavilion. The spaying and neutering surgeries are done in a glass-enclosed operating room that allows fairgoers to watch from seats outside.
 Overhead cameras in the room feed outside monitors that give observers an up-close view. Surgeries will be done at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.
 each day except Aug. 8, 13 and 15. On the fair's Purdue Day, Aug. 10, Purdue veterinarian Lyn Freeman will perform laparoscopic spaying, a minimally invasive surgery that involves three small punctures rather than an incision.
 A tiny camera is utilized to enable the surgeon to see inside and remove the ovaries with a special surgical instrument. IVMA veterinarians will do most of the surgeries.
 Assisting at each surgery will be a senior veterinary student and an anesthesia technician from Purdue, and a surgery technician from either Purdue or IVMA.
 A veterinarian or veterinary technician from either IVMA or Purdue will be stationed outside to provide details on what's happening and answer questions.
 The cats and dogs being spayed and neutered will come from the Humane Society of Indianapolis. The animals have been adopted but must be spayed or neutered before they are released from the shelter.
 On the Aug. 10 Purdue Day, the College of Veterinary Medicine will host an 11:30 a.m. special demonstration on the Purdue Main Stage by Jonathan Townsend, assistant professor of dairy production medicine.
 The demonstration will involve a cow and is designed to complement the state fair theme of "The Year of Dairy Cow." Source: Kevin Doerr, director of alumni relations and public affairs for the College of Veterinary Medicine, 765-494-8216, 765-414-0028, 
doerrkr@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/still-time-to-complete-approved-tobacco-cessation-program-to-avoid-2014-additional-medical-premium.html
<Content> Still time to complete approved tobacco cessation program to avoid 2014 additional medical premium
 Still time to complete approved tobacco cessation program to avoid 2014 additional medical premium The $500 per person tobacco-user additional premium will continue for 2014 Purdue medical plans.
 The additional premium applies to employees and covered spouses/same-sex domestic partners (SSDPs). If both people in the couple use tobacco and are covered by the plan, the additional premium will be $1,000.
 Employees and spouses/SSDPs who have used tobacco during the past 12 months may qualify for a waiver of the additional premium by completing an approved tobacco cessation program.
 Approved programs completed Sept. 1-Nov. 15 qualify for a full waiver of the 2014 additional premium. Programs completed at other times in 2013 don't qualify for a 2014 waiver.
 Tobacco users still have a variety of approved cessation programs available that they may complete in time for a January 2014 waiver.
 Employees who do not enroll in time to earn a January waiver may complete an approved program later in the year for a partial waiver of the 2014 additional premium.
 For more information, including how to get started, go to www.purdue.edu/hr/Benefits/tobaccoCessation.html. Employees will certify their tobacco-user status and that of their covered spouses/SSDPs during the online benefits open enrollment process this fall.
 Those covered by a Purdue medical plan who do not certify their status will be considered a tobacco user and will be charged the $500 additional premium in 2014.
 To qualify as a non-tobacco user and avoid the additional premium, a person must have been a non-tobacco user for at least 12 months immediately prior to completing the 2014 benefits enrollment or must have completed an approved tobacco cessation program as outlined above.
 Open enrollment will take place Oct. 28-Nov. 15. Anyone with questions may contact Human Resources at 49-42222 or hr@purdue.edu.
</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/student-entrepreneurship-hub-opens,-assists-in-business-development.html
<Content> Student entrepreneurship hub opens, assists in business development
 WEST LAFAEYETTE, Ind. – Entrepreneurial students may find a home for their businesses and ideas at the Anvil, http://theanvil.us/
, which opens Monday (Aug. 26) and is located at 1601 State St. in West Lafayette, Ind. Founded by student entrepreneurs Mike Asem, co-founder of the startup Tebogo LLC, and Chris MacPherson, co-founder of Kyk Energy Inc.
, the Anvil contains conference rooms for meetings, networking space and will host space to house student businesses. Asem, who is a liberal arts undergraduate, said the Anvil's mission is to expand Purdue's entrepreneurial community.
 "We wanted to create a place that's sole purpose was to help students take actionable steps to take their ideas further and form a community of innovators and visionaries," Asem said.
 "The Anvil will provide the resources, amenities, community and infrastructure to help founders and teams take an idea from their dorm room or apartment to an office in the Purdue Research Park, or wherever they want to go.
" MacPherson, who is a Krannert School of Management undergraduate and has completed the Purdue Certificate in Entrepreneurship and Innovation program
, said that the Anvil provides students with the opportunity to meet and work around other enterprising individuals. "Students will be able to meet other like-minded students from all over campus, but each with individual skill sets," he said.
 "A non-technical business student with an idea for an app may be able to meet a tech-savvy student who can code as well as an artistic designer who can design something remarkable for example.
" The Anvil will host events such as tech talks, workshops and investor networking sessions, all of which are free. Asem said that these events assist in personal development as well as business development.
 "These events enrich the entrepreneurial capabilities of students and their business teams," he said. "Workshops can help the students know how to strengthen leadership and business structure including case-by-case advising sessions with legal, banking or accounting service providers so they can learn what steps to take next and how to improve their business.
" Chris MacPherson chris@kykenergy.com </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/student-group-hopes-community-will-help-throw-in-the-towel.html
<Content> Student group hopes community will help 'throw in the towel'
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A group of Purdue University students wants community members to throw in the towel - and other personal hygiene items - to help local homeless shelters.
 Alpha Kappa Psi, a professional business fraternity, is conducting its Soap and Towel Campaign on Nov. 12-16. Event organizer Jazna Stannard said the group will be collecting blankets, towels, soap, shampoo and other personal care items that will be donated to local homeless shelters, including Lafayette Urban Ministries.
 Collection points will be at the Interfraternity Council office in the Purdue Memorial Union, Room 284; the Boiler Volunteer Network office in Stewart Center, Room G4; and the southwest entrance of the Purdue Memorial Union.
 The Purdue group is among more than 20 fraternity chapters participating in the collection effort nationally. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/student-organizations-to-be-deactivated-oct.-15.html
<Content> Student organizations to be deactivated Oct. 15
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's Student Activities and Organization Office announced the list of organizations and clubs whose records have become outdated.
 Every semester - by Sept. 15 and Feb. 15 - organizations are required to submit an election report online at http://www.getinvolved.purdue.edu
. In addition, within three weeks of an election for president, treasurer or adviser, clubs are required to report these changes into the same online system.
 Organizations that fail to update fall election reports will be deactivated on Monday (Oct. 15). </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/student-veteran-groups-win-awards,-set-national-examples.html
<Content> Student veteran groups win awards, set national examples
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Student veterans from the University of Evansville, Indiana University Southeast and Purdue University won top honors and $2,000 each in a Student Veterans Organization Hall of Fame Competition, the Military Family Research Institute at Purdue University announced Friday (Nov.
 2). The event, which was open to the public in Indianapolis, showcased the talents and achievements of the best of Indiana's student veteran organizations.
 UE Vets, the student veteran organization associated with the University of Evansville, won first place. IU Southeast and Purdue took home second and third place honors, respectively.
 Other top groups participating received $1,000; they represented Ball State University, Ivy Tech Bloomington and Ivy Tech Sellersburg.
 The event was the culmination of previously held grant competitions sponsored by Operation Diploma, the post-secondary education initiative of the Military Family Research Institute (MFRI).
 All student veteran groups presented to a panel of expert judges before a live audience at the NCAA Hall of Champions. "We are so proud of each organization that competed in the hall of fame event," said Stacie Hitt, director of Operation Diploma.
 "They are excellent examples of successful student organizations, and the public competition inspired those in the audience." Evansville's group offered a presentation that explained how it has pursued its established mission to "provide support and outreach to veterans, current service members, and their families as they transition from the military to college and beyond to the workforce.
" "University of Evansville is an example of what a SVO (student veteran organization) should be, and not just in Indiana; they are a national example of what these groups can aspire to be," said Michael Dakduk, a competition judge and executive director of Student Veterans of American.
 Evansville veterans have successfully competed for Operation Diploma grants every year since 2009, and GI Jobs named the group a military-friendly school from 2010-2013.
 The university's 2009 partnership with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to serve as a Yellow Ribbon Institution of Higher Learning has led to a 383 percent increase in student veteran enrollment since 2009, according to the Evansville veteran student organization.
 They also have put on a number of collaborative events, including a Veterans Day 5K Walk, Run andRoll Race, a Veterans' Fair, and a city-wide book read aimed at increasing understanding of readjustment issues after military deployments.
 These events engaged a number of different constituencies, including Evansville alumni veterans, their campus and student veterans at the University of Southern Indiana and Ivy Tech Community College Southwest.
 The Indiana University Southeast's group was recognized, in part, for strong relationships and collaborations with its campus and community constituencies, including other veterans service organizations and the neighboring campus of Ivy Tech Sellersburg.
 Purdue's student group is poised to implement a veteran mentorship program, and its initiative led the university to form a learning community for veterans this fall and hire a veteran and non-traditional student coordinator in Purdue's Student Access, Transition and Success.
 The group's Student Veteran Charity Golf Scramble raised almost $3,000 for the Wounded Warrior Project in August. During opening remarks, MFRI Director Shelley MacDermid Wadsworth emphasized that all SVOs in attendance earned their way there through exemplary work.
 "There's a reason why you have been chosen to participate today," she said. "By providing important avenues of connection and support, you are crucial to your peers' success, and you are also helping to educate your faculty and administrators about how much student service members and veterans bring to Indiana campuses.
 Thank you for making a difference on your campuses, in your communities, and beyond." The Military Family Research Institute is a research and outreach organization based at Purdue and is supported by Lilly Endowment Inc.
, the Department of Defense, and others. Its post-secondary education initiative, Operation Diploma, was created in 2008 thanks to a grant from Lilly Endowment Inc.
 Since then, 80 percent of two- and four-year schools have connected with MFRI for various resources to support student service members and veterans.
 Almost half have been engaged in trainings that focused on the unique needs of military students. Grants for student veteran organization competitions began in 2009, and through them MFRI has awarded more than $60,000 throughout the state.
 The number of Indiana student veteran organizations has grown by more than 300 percent. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/students-ability-to-connect-to-campus-events,-activities-gets-easier.html
<Content> Students' ability to connect to campus events, activities gets easier
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The Purdue University iPhone app now features PurdueBoard as a way to enhance the communication of events, announcements and callouts.
 Students, faculty and staff can submit fliers to PurdueBoard, which sends them to Twitter, Facebook, email lists, RSS feeds and more than 100 digital signs around campus.
 PurdueBoard is one of several new features now included in the official Purdue iPhone and iPad apps this fall. The notification system will now run faster, host more communicators and offer new campus scenes to enhance the look of announcements.
 Users also can upload their own fliers. The Division of Student Affairs provides PurdueBoard for all students, faculty, and staff.
 A flowchart of PurdueBoard and a list of new features can be found at http://www.purdue.edu/PurdueBoard Contact: James Britton, communications coordinator for Division of Student Affairs, 765-494-9755, 
jamesbritton@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/students-prefer-apps-to-the-web-when-using-smartphones.html
<Content> Students prefer apps to the Web when using smartphones
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Students prefer using apps on their smartphones instead of being pointed to mobile app sites, according to a survey of Purdue University students.
 This runs counter to a move toward mobile Web development using HTML 5 by many Web developers. The study results are being published Tuesday (Sept.
 25) at the online academic site Educause Center for Applied Research. The study had 1,566 respondents and a margin of error of 3.3 percent.
 At issue is whether when looking for information - such as wanting to check the weather forecast - students go to a weather app or simply use their phone's browser to connect with a weather website.
 The survey results were clear: Students want the app. For almost every type of use surveyed, students prefer to use an app they have installed on their phones (the lone exception was for reference information).
 Using the weather example, students had a preference for the app by 85 percent versus 8 percent who wanted to use the Web. The Purdue students said native apps are faster and simpler to navigate, perceptions that are also true, says Kyle Bowen director of Information Technology at Purdue's informatics group and one of the paper's co-authors.
 "They are easier and faster to use, but native app programming is new and unfamiliar to most Web developers," Bowen says. "And trying to cut corners in developing an app, such as by using a template tool, doesn't help you in the long run.
" This isn't welcome news for Web developers, who are part of a national trend toward favoring HTML-5 built mobile websites over apps.
 For example, a 2011 article in The Chronicle of Higher Education was headlined, "As mobile devices multiply, some colleges turn away from building campus apps
." But it's not just universities that are learning this lesson. At the TechCrunch Disrupt conference in September, Mark Zuckerberg said Facebook's 
biggest mistake so far was betting on the HTML-5 mobile Web instead of focusing on native apps. Purdue has developed seven mobile classroom apps designed to raise student performance through its 
Purdue Studio project. Bowen, who leads the project, says although he would prefer to develop mobile websites, the project team learned early on that students weren't comfortable with them.
 "The first version of our Hotseat app had a mobile Web interface. There was no native app," Bowen says. "We discovered that students would go the app store and look for the Hotseat app, and when it wasn't there they wouldn't use the software on their phone.
" Matthew Pistilli, a co-author on the paper and an academic technologies research scientist at Purdue, says this information into use preferences is important because there is little doubt that mobile devices are the future for higher education.
 "The advantage of using mobile devices in higher education is that it allows the student to take the classroom almost anywhere," Pistilli says.
 "For example, using an app such as Purdue's Jetpack or through mobile access to Blackboard, students can read articles, work on assignments or collaborate with others from anywhere.
" Pistilli says there are hidden benefits, too, because instructors and administrators can learn more about which educational approaches are working through data produced by the apps.
 "Analytics collected on application use allow an instructor or institution to do several things, such as fine tune the software, promote the use of other apps or simply provide information to students about how they can enhance their class performance," Pistilli says.
 * When asked how to rank their skill level on using the phone from novice (only using the phone for calls, email and texting) to expert (having developed mobile apps), 85 percent considered themselves either an intermediate (42 percent) or advanced (43 percent) user.
 * Students rely on their devices: Users describing themselves as novice used their device an average of 2.1 hours per day, and expert users are on their device 5.3 hours per day.
 * The most popular operating systems were Android, used by 43 percent of the students, and Apple's iOS, which was used by 40 percent.
 "There are a number of manufacturers building many different Android smartphones, so Apple's iPhone is the clear favorite device among our students," Bowen says.
 * The least popular device was the RIM Blackberry, which was used by 9 percent of the respondents. * Students are aware of data charges, and 33 percent say they would never download a video unless connected to a Wi-Fi network.
 In the debate over "native versus neutral" what do students prefer? Is a student's preference for a mobile learning application related to the nature of the information provided or the activity performed?
 This research bulletin examines a study conducted by Purdue University regarding student mobile preferences. This study provides insights into how students prefer to consume information on the mobile devices ranging broad categories to coursework-specific areas of interest.
 Additionally, a brief case study of Purdue's own mobile development activities illustrates one example for how this information can be practically applied.
 The information detailed in this research bulletin is intended to help inform future mobile application development efforts, as well as establish expectations for companies with which institutions do business.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/students-with-disabilities-put-adaptive-lab-resources-to-test-during-summer-program.html
<Content> Students with disabilities put adaptive lab resources to test during summer program
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Six college students with disabilities are able to be active members of research teams where laboratory equipment can be adapted and assistive technologies added for their personal mobility and visual or hearing challenges as part of a Purdue University summer program.
 "The United States needs more students studying science and engineering, and many interested and qualified students are discouraged from the biomedical sciences because of physical challenges in traditional laboratory settings," said Brad Duerstock, an associate professor of engineering practice and director of Purdue's Institute for Accessible Science.
 "There may not be room to maneuver or lab bench space may be inaccessible to wheelchair users, or people with limited vision can't use standard lab equipment, such as light microscopes and spectrophotometers.
 Through this program, we identify such challenges and then work with the research community to make adjustments so students can pursue an education and careers in science.
" The IAS Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship program, which started June 2 and goes through July 28, matches undergraduate students, including two from Purdue, with a researcher and program of their interest.
 The participating areas of study are animal sciences, biological sciences, food science, biomedical engineering, and medicinal chemistry and molecular pharmacology.
 "The institute provides financial support to the faculty member and assists with addressing any obstacles or providing assistive technologies specific to the students' disabilities," said Susan Mendrysa, an associate professor of biomedical sciences in the College of Veterinary Medicine and principal organizer for the summer program.
 "Some accommodations we've made so far include machines labeled with Braille, printing tactile graph representations of data, a voice labeling system for equipment, and weight measurement tools that don't just show measurements but also speak them.
" The Institute for Accessible Science is partnering with the Purdue Graduate School's Summer Research Opportunities Program, which is focused on enhancing diversity in science and graduate education.
 Through this partnership, the Summer Research Opportunities Program coordinates some essential program components such as travel, living arrangements, and a GRE preparation workshop.
 "Thanks to them, this allows the institute to focus our efforts on addressing the specific accommodations or assistive technologies that are required by an IAS fellowship recipient in order for them to have a successful summer research experience," said Mendrysa who is assistant director of the Institute for Accessible Science.
 The summer program gives the institute, which is in its third year, the opportunity to test assistive learning technology for student use.
 The Institute for Accessible Science is supported by a $2 million grant from the National Institute of Health Director's Pathfinder Award.
 The grant awarded in 2011 made it possible for the research team to collect information and study laboratory and research challenges for science students with physical disabilities.
 This information is often collected through the institute's hub at IASHub.org. The summer program's students also will maintain program blogs that are shared on the site, and information that Duerstock and his team learn also will be posted and prepared for journal articles and presentations.
 "The goal is for the science community, especially at universities and colleges, to benefit from what we've learned so we can encourage more students with disabilities to pursue science careers," Duerstock said.
 High school students' interest in STEM fields is comparable, at 18 percent, between the disabled and non-disabled. That interest drops, Duerstock said, for students with disabilities during their college years, partly because of few role models in STEM fields, lack of student research and internship experiences, physical challenges to using wet-lab facilities and equipment, and lack of awareness of where to find more information regarding STEM accessibility.
 In addition to the summer fellowship program, the Institute for Accessible Science also created the Accessible Biomedical Immersion Laboratory, known as AIBL, which is located in the Discovery Learning Research Center.
 Using information from people with disabilities, Duerstock and his team are redesigning the traditional lab space. In this lab, the wet-lab space and the emergency safety area are reconfigured for people in wheelchairs.
 Other features include a motion-activated biohazard bin, adjustable-height lab table, and talking scale and pitcher that can report data for those with visual impairments.
 Duerstock, whose academic appointments are in the Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering and School of Industrial Engineering, uses a wheelchair and has limited mobility.
 His personal experience inspired him to develop new technologies such as the AccessScope, which is a remote-controlled research light microscope for people with limited use of their arms.
 He also is working on redesigning the micropipette, a high-precision instrument used for dispensing minute amounts of liquids. They also are working with other Purdue researchers to assist students with disabilities in the lab using robotic systems.
 "Our mission goes beyond just inclusion during education and while at universities. We want what we offer to carry over to the industry and professional practice," Duerstock said.
 "We are providing tools to help people seek employment in science and engineering fields, which is necessary for keeping people employed and increasing the number of those with disabilities working in STEM fields.
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/study-chimpanzees-eat-smart-when-it-comes-to-mealtime.html
<Content> Study: Chimpanzees eat smart when it comes to mealtime
 Pictured here is a chimpanzee from Ngogo in Uganda's Kibale National Park. Bryce Carlson, a Purdue assistant professor of anthropology who studies primate ecology and nutrition in human evolution, found that chimpanzees watch what they eat and when, which may show that these primates are giving some thought to the quality of their food.
 Data regarding the chimpanzees and two species of saplings were collected from Ngogo. Carlson's findings are published in the American Journal of Primatology
. (Photo provided by Bryce Carlson) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Chimpanzees watch what they eat and when, which may show that these primates are giving some thought to the quality of their food, according to Purdue University research.
 "There is an association between the time of day primates eat certain resources and the nutritional quality of those resources, suggesting consumption may track nutrient content," said 
Bryce Carlson, an assistant professor of anthropology who studies primate ecology and nutrition in human evolution. "We can't say for sure if chimpanzees are consciously selecting the leaves when nutritional content is greatest, but this correlation presents an intriguing hypothesis to explain feeding behavior in this primate species and mechanisms for ingestive behavior in general.
" The study's results are published in the April American Journal of Primatology, and this work was funded by the National Science Foundation and L.S.B.
 Leakey Foundation. Carlson, who is a member of Purdue's Ingestive Behavior Research Center, is studying the dietary habits of wild chimpanzees as part of his research on the history of diet in human evolution.
 These primates, which live in forest areas of Africa, are part of the hominidae family that also includes humans, gorillas and orangutans.
 It is estimated there are 300,000 chimpanzees in the wild. Chimpanzees, whose diet is composed of fruit, leaves, plant stalks, roots, insects and other vertebrate animals, frequently consume various leaves at the end of the day.
 Other researchers have proposed the animals prefer eating leaves at that time to feel full and facilitate greater nutrient absorption overnight, or that this daily eating pattern results from social dynamics, where chimpanzees typically spend late afternoons in smaller foraging groups on the ground where these leaves are found.
 The Pterygota mildbraedii is a large tree common throughout the Ngogo chimpanzee habitat, and it is among the primate's key food sources.
 (Photo provided by Bryce Carlson) Download Photo "But we know there is a correlation between nutritional quality and daily feeding patterns for other animals, such as domesticated sheep," Carlson said.
 "So we wanted to take a closer look at chimpanzees by comparing the primates' feeding habits to the nutritional composition of these leaves throughout the day.
" Data regarding the chimpanzees and two species of saplings, Pterygota mildbraedii and Celtis africana, were collected from Ngogo in Uganda's Kibale National Park.
 The Ngogo chimpanzee community is the largest observed in the world - more than 180 animals - and has been actively studied since 1995.
 Daily feeding observations from 2002-2011, made primarily during the dry season months of June through August, of 41 adult male chimpanzees were analyzed for eating patterns.
 These were compared to nutrition samples from Pterygota mildbraedii and Celtis africana. Leaf samples were taken from different saplings and at various feeding times during the day.
 Pterygota mildbraedii is a very large tree, common throughout the Ngogo chimpanzee habitat. The chimpanzees, however, eat young leaves of the saplings found near the forest floor.
 This study found that the leaves' hemicellulose - a more digestible fiber - and nonstructural carbohydrates - simple sugars and starch - increased 15 percent to 100 percent, respectively, from morning to evening.
 Cellulose and lignin, which make the leaves more difficult to digest, also decreased by day's end. Celtis africana is a smaller tree than 
Pterygota, the saplings of which contain many thin branches and small leaves. The sugars in this plant's leaves were found to double from morning to late afternoon.
 The Celtis africana is a smaller tree common throughout the Ngogo chimpanzee habitat, and it is among the primate's key food sources.
 (Photo provided by Bryce Carlson) Download Photo "If these sugars or total non-structural carbohydrates are increasing, then the leaves are returning more calories late in the day," Carlson said.
 "At this time, they may taste sweeter, and the chimpanzees may then learn and adjust their feeding behavior accordingly. We know they use vision, texture, taste and smell to gauge when to eat fruit, so it's understandable to think they may do the same with leaves.
" "Questions about what humans are eating today and why are important as our growing world population increasingly struggles with malnutrition tightly linked with quality of life, morbidity and mortality," Carlson said.
 "Evolution for any species is related to, and even driven by, food availability and quality, so the more we learn about our long history with food, the better able we are to make individual and population level recommendations for consumer behavior today and years to come.
" Other partners that supported this study include Purdue's Department of Anthropology, Emory University, Hunter College of The City University of New York and the University of Michigan.
 Carlson also collaborated with the Ugandan Wildlife Authority and the Ugandan National Council for Sciences and Technology. The study co-authors are Jessica M.
 Rothman, an assistant professor of primate ecology at Hunter College of The City University of New York, and John C. Mitani, the James N.
 Spuhler Collegiate Professor at the University of Michigan. Note to Journalists: Journalists interested in a copy of the American Journal of Primatology
 article can contact Amy Patterson Neubert, Purdue News Service, at 765-494-9723, apatterson@purdue.edu Primate feeding behavior varies over long (e.g.
 weekly, seasonally, yearly) and short (e.g. hourly) scales of times due to changes in resources availability and the nutritional composition of foods.
 While the factors that affect long-term changes in feeding behavior have received considerable attention, few data exist regarding what drives variability in feeding behavior over the course of a single day.
 To address this problem, we investigated diurnal variation in chimpanzee feeding on the leaves of two species of saplings, Pterygota mildbraedii
, and Celtis africana, at Ngogo, Kibale National Park, Uganda. Specifically, we related short-term changes in chimpanzee feeding behavior on these leaves to diurnal variation in their nutrition composition.
 Results showed that chimpanzees fed on the leaves of both saplings more in the evening than they did in the morning. The nutritional quality of leaves also improved over the course of the day.
 Concentration of cellulose and lignin were lower and total non-structural carbohydrates (including sugars and starch) were higher in the evening for 
P. mildbraedii, and sugars were higher in the evening for C. africana. These data suggest that chimpanzees consume these resources when their quality is highest, and consequently, may track the nutrient composition of their foods over very short periods that span only a few hours.
 In the future, foods collected for analyses must control for time of sampling to ensure biologically meaningful assays of nutrient composition.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/study-genome-duplication-aids-plants-survival-in-saline-soils.html
<Content> Study: Genome duplication aids plant's survival in saline soils
 Brian Dilkes, a Purdue assistant professor of horticulture and landscape architecture, with a plant of the genus Arabidopsis. (Purdue Agricultural Communication photo/Tom Campbell) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Having more than two sets of chromosomes can increase a plant's ability to take up nutrients and survive in saline soils, a joint study by Purdue University and the University of Aberdeen shows.
 Researchers found that polyploidy, the condition of having more than two genome copies, causes the flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana
 to accumulate a greater amount of potassium in its leaves and demonstrate a higher tolerance to saline environments. Most flowering plants are diploid, having two copies of a genome.
 "Polyploidy has an immediate, direct influence on the accumulation of required nutrient elements in plant leaves," said Brian Dilkes, an assistant professor of 
horticulture and landscape architecture at Purdue. "This shows how polyploidy can play a role in plant adaptation and may explain why genomes in plants evolve the way they do.
" Dilkes says the altered nutrient uptake observed in A. thaliana could hold true for other plant species. "Many crops are already polyploids, but we can make use of these findings in a variety of species," he said.
 "Polyploidy could be used as a tool for expanding the range of current diploid crops. For example, it opens up a new way of manipulating plants' abilities to absorb nutrients and survive in nutrient-poor or toxic environments.
" The sodium resistance of polyploids could make them valuable cultivars in regions with saline soils. Due to its recurrence throughout plant history, polyploidy was long thought to have adaptive benefits.
 Most laboratory studies, however, found polyploids with four identical genome copies to be equal or weak compared with diploids.
 Dilkes' study demonstrates that polyploidy's positive effects depend on the environment in which polyploids are grown. The study, led by Dai-Yin Chao of Aberdeen, is available on the website of Science Express at 
http://www.sciencexpress.org and will appear in a printed publication of Science at a later date. Dilkes and his fellow researchers measured 21 elements in the leaves of diploid and polyploid 
Arabidopsis thaliana specimens from around the world. They found that A. thaliana tetraploids - plants with four identical sets of chromosomes - had a distinct nutritional advantage over their diploid counterparts: a 32 percent greater potassium concentration in leaves.
 Subsequent testing of tetraploids created in the laboratory confirmed the link between genome duplication and the accumulation of specific elements in leaves.
 "When we took a variety of A. thaliana and doubled its genome content, we found that the potassium level of the leaves always went up," Dilkes said.
 Plants with four genome copies also demonstrated a greater survival and reproduction rate than diploid plants when grown in a saline-supplemented environment.
 This could be explained by increased potassium accumulation due to polyploidy. "Previous work has suggested that one of the critical factors in plant tolerance to a saline environment is maintaining a high potassium-to-sodium ratio," Dilkes said.
 "The balance of those two elements is extremely important to survival." Polyploidy’s effects also were transmitted across graft unions from the root to the shoot.
 When diploid A. thaliana shoots were grafted onto polyploid roots, the leaves showed an increase in potassium accumulation. "This demonstrates that it is nutrient uptake and trafficking by the root that must be responsible for nutrient concentration in leaves," Dilkes said.
 "When you have a polyploid root, you end up with leaves that contain a higher amount of potassium." Developing polyploid rootstocks for grafting could be highly valuable, Dilkes said.
 "You can select a saline-tolerant rootstock for a fruit tree and then graft with shoots that have other desirable characteristics.
" Further research is needed to determine the exact mechanism that causes polyploids to accumulate greater amounts of potassium, Dilkes said.
 He also is studying whether this change in nutrient accumulation contributes to plant adaptation in the wild, which is key to understanding both short- and long-term evolution of plants.
 The saline tolerance of A. thaliana polyploids could shed light on the survival and expansion of early plant species. "Flowering plants emerged when much of the land mass on Earth was covered by a saline desert," Dilkes said.
 "It's possible that the rapid spread and multiplication of plant species was due to polyploids' ability to colonize new, highly toxic environments.
 The findings of this study provide a potential explanation for why we have observed polyploidy recurrently over the history of land plants.
" The study was funded in part by the U.S. National Institutes of Health and the European Commission. Dai-Yin Chao 1; Brian Dilkes 2; Hongbing Luo 2; Alex Douglas 1; Elena Yakubova 2; Brett Lahner 2; David E.
 Salt 1 1 Institute of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Cruickshank Building, St. Machar Drive, Aberdeen, AB24 3UU, United Kingdom
 2 Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana, United States of America Genome duplication (or polyploidization) has occurred throughout plant evolutionary history and is thought to have driven the adaptive radiation of plants.
 We found that the cytotype of the root, and not the genotype, determined the majority of heritable natural variation in the concentration of leaf potassium (K) in Arabidopsis thaliana.
 Autopolyploidy also provided resistance to salinity and may represent an adaptive outcome of the enhanced K accumulation of plants with higher ploidy.
 From Chao, Dai-Yin, Brian Dilkes, et al., Polyploids exhibit higher potassium uptake and salinity tolerance in Arabidopis. Science.
 (2013), http://www.sciencemag.org/lookup/doi/10.1126/science.1240561. Reprinted with permission from AAAS. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/study-immigrants-who-live,-work-together-less-apt-to-learn-english.html
<Content> Study: Immigrants who live, work together less apt to learn English
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Adult immigrants living and working in places where they are surrounded by others who share their ethnic backgrounds are less likely to learn or be proficient in the English language, say two Purdue University researchers.
 In a study of Chinese and Mexican immigrants age 25 and older who came to the United States for reasons other than attending school, Purdue agricultural economists Brigitte Waldorf and Raymond Florax and three research collaborators found that residing and working in ethnic "enclaves" made it easier for immigrants to continue speaking their native language and put off - or avoid altogether - learning English.
 Failing to know English hurts an immigrant's ability to integrate into American society and could limit their occupational opportunities, Waldorf and Florax said.
 Integration, including the ability to speak English, is at the center of the national debate on immigration reform and "pathway to citizenship" proposals offered by President Obama and Congress.
 Living and working among a diverse group of people motivates immigrants to become English speakers, Waldorf and Florax said. "In short, you can say that Chinatown, or little Italy, or any other enclave, is not very conducive to learning English," he said.
 The Purdue study, "Living and Working in Ethnic Enclaves: English Language Proficiency of Immigrants in U.S. Metropolitan Areas," measured the effects of residential and occupational segregation on immigrants' ability to speak English and the effects of living with family members who were fluent in English.
 Researchers looked at U.S. Census data and previous immigrant studies to produce English proficiency snapshots of non-student Chinese and Mexicans who moved to the United States.
 Chinese and Mexicans are among the largest immigrant groups. Census data indicate that while 32 percent of the U.S. population growth between 2000 and 2010 came from immigration, the proportion of English-speaking immigrants has declined from 85 percent in 1900 to 71 percent in 2010.
 The decline in English proficiency can be attributed, in part, to how immigrants assimilate into U.S. society when they arrive. 
"In the U.S. there is basically no assistance with any sort of assimilation. Immigrants come into the country, and they are on their own," Waldorf said.
 "Other countries often take a much more active role in ensuring that immigrants can speak the native language, with governments offering language courses as part of the citizenship process.
" Because there is no English proficiency requirement for immigrants, many who don't know the language when they arrive in the United States choose places to live and work where they feel most comfortable - places where English-speaking skills aren't necessary, the researchers said.
 Whether and how they learn English varies, depending on their educational level, job skills, language skills of others in their household and, sometimes, their country of origin.
 The Purdue study found that immigrants with higher education levels and job skills were more likely to speak English or wanted to learn the language.
 Living with family members who already spoke English also was conducive to acquiring at least conversational English skills - especially for immigrants with job skills.
 The presence of English-speaking children in the household often plays out differently for Chinese and Mexican immigrants. In Chinese immigrant homes, English-speaking children usually serve as language teachers to non-English-speaking adults.
 In Mexican immigrant homes, children with English skills often serve as translators for adults not proficient in English. Country of origin also is a factor, the study found.
 Because accommodations are made for Spanish-speaking people in most of the United States, Mexican immigrants can get along easier without learning English than Chinese immigrants, who often don't enjoy those same accommodations.
 Learning the English language is just as important to immigrants' economic status as it is to their ability to function in social circles, Florax said.
 Any immigration reform policy should be structured to meet the special needs of different immigrant groups. Immigrants who integrate into American society can still hold on to their cultural traditions, Waldorf said.
 "Learning English does not mean you forget your culture or your own language," she said. "You can keep your own culture and still be American.
 It's not one or the other." The Purdue study will be published in an upcoming issue of Papers of Regional Science. The online edition is at 
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1111/(ISSN)1435-5957. Also on the research team were Julia Beckhusen of the U.S. Census Bureau; Thomas de Graaff of VU University Amsterdam, The Netherlands; and Jacques Poot of the University of Waikato, New Zealand.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/study-is-moms-favorite-child-always-the-same.html
<Content> Study: Is mom's favorite child always the same?
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Similarities in personal values and beliefs between an adult child and an older mother is what keeps that child in favor over the long-term, and that preference can have practical applications for mother's long-term care, according to a Purdue University study.
 "Favoritism matters because it affects adult sibling relationships and caregiving patterns and outcomes for mothers, and now we know that who a mother favors is not likely to change," said Jill Suitor, professor of 
sociology, who has been studying older parent relationships with adult children for nearly 30 years. "Knowing that favoritism, particularly regarding caregiving, is relatively stable will be helpful for practitioners when designing arrangements that are going to work best for moms.
" Approximately three-quarters of the mothers identified that the child who they favored as their preferred caregiver at the start of the study was the same child they favored seven years later.
 "One of the biggest predictors of who remained the favorite was mother's perception of similarity between herself and her child," said Megan Gilligan, an assistant professor in human development and family studies at Iowa State University and a former Purdue graduate student who is a collaborator on the project.
 "Mothers were likely to continue to prefer children who they perceived were similar to them in their beliefs and values, as well as to prefer children who had cared for them before.
" Their research, co-authored with Karl Pillemer, professor of human development in the College of Human Ecology at Cornell University, is published in the 
Journal of Marriage and Family. The findings are based on the Within-Family Differences Study in which data were collected seven years apart from the same 406 mothers, ages 65-75.
 The study is funded by the National Institute on Aging. Gender similarity also was a consistent factor to show long-term favoritism, which is not surprising because the mother-daughter connection has been shown in previous research to typically be the strongest, closest and most supportive parent-child relationship.
 In addition to looking at the similarity of personal values, the researchers also looked at whether a child's financial independence, adult roles as a spouse or parent themselves, consistent employment, and lawful behavior influenced which child remained the favorite.
 What was surprising is that whether a child was married, divorced or achieved independence, mattered much less than sharing personal values, said Suitor, who is a member of the Center on Aging and the Life Course.
 "These mothers are saying that if I can't make my own decisions involving my life than who can best make these decisions for me?
 Who thinks like I do?" Suitor said. "Who has the same vision in life that I do, has a pretty good sense of what I would do? This is incredibly important with issues related to caregiving, and that is why understanding these family dynamics is so important.
" While the importance similarity played in explaining why a mother's favorite child remained the same across the study, it was much harder to identify what drove changes when a child fell out of favor.
 "One of the few predictors of changes was when children stopped engaging in deviant behaviors, such as substance abuse, during the seven years, and then their mothers were more likely to choose them as the children to whom they were most emotionally close," Gilligan said.
 Suitor said, "This is an interesting change because if a child engaged in deviant behaviors seven years ago but then stopped they were even more likely to be chosen than were siblings who never engaged in deviant behaviors.
" Suitor, Pillemer and Gilligan are planning to extend the Within-Family Differences Study to include interviewing the Baby Boomers about their own adult children.
 Note to Journalists: Journalists interested in a copy of the journal article can contact Amy Patterson Neubert, Purdue News Service, 765-494-9723, 
apatterson@purdue.edu The importance of parental favoritism in childhood and adulthood has been well documented; little is known, however, about changes over time in such within-family differentiation.
 Drawing on theories of life course processes and developmental psychology, the authors used 7-year panel data collected from 406 older mothers about their relationships with 1,514 adult children to explore patterns of favoritism regarding caregiving and emotional closeness.
 The findings demonstrated continuity in patterns of mothers' favoritism. Mothers tended to prefer the same children across time, particularly regarding preferred caregivers.
 It was anticipated that children's social-structural characteristics, similarity to their mothers, structural position in the family, and support provision to mothers would predict favored child status across time; however, only similarity and support processes were strong and consistent predictors of change and continuity in patterns of mothers' favoritism.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/study-older-volunteers-in-better-physical-health-than-younger-peers.html
<Content> Study: Older volunteers in better physical health than younger peers
 Adults 70 or older who regularly volunteer are in better physical health than those just a few years younger, according to new research from Purdue doctoral student Seoyoun Kim, from left, and distinguished professor of sociology Kenneth F.
 Ferraro. The sociologists found that older adults, ages 70-85, who regularly volunteered have younger biological profiles than those ages 58-69 who infrequently volunteer.
 Their research is published in The Gerontologist. Pictured in the background is Read to Succeed volunteer Janice Hooper with a Burnett Creek Elementary School student.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Adults 70 or older who regularly volunteer are in better physical health than those just a few years younger, according to new research from Purdue University.
 The sociologists found that people ages 70-85 who regularly volunteered have younger biological profiles than those ages 58-69 who infrequently volunteer.
 They adjusted for a variety of factors, including whether the people in these age groups were in good enough physical health to volunteer.
 "We looked at older adults engaging in a variety of productive activities, but there is something really distinctive about volunteering that positively affects a person's physical health, " said Seoyoun (pronounced Sigh-ON) Kim, a doctoral student in sociology and gerontology who led the study.
 The study, which is published online in The Gerontologist, measured physical health and activities such as volunteering, caregiving, community engagement and employment of independent-living people.
 While there has been research on the positive relationship between volunteering and self-reported physical and mental health, this study evaluates a specific biomarker that more accurately reflects people's health.
 "We believe we are the first to document this link by measuring chronic inflammation," said Kenneth F. Ferraro, a Purdue distinguished professor of sociology.
 Previous studies look at self-reported physician-diagnosed diseases, self-reported health, or symptoms, which can be influenced by access to health care, the researchers said.
 "By using a biomarker, which is like a canary in the mine, we can clinically detect a person's physiological health, whether it has been diagnosed or not," Ferraro said.
 The C-reactive protein, known as CRP, increases with aging, and higher amounts are indicative of health problems such as cardiovascular and chronic disease.
 This protein was measured in the National Social Life, Health and Aging Project, which is a nationally representative sample of adults who answered questions about their health and provided a blood sample.
 The researchers for this study analyzed data collected in 2005-06 from 1,790 people ages 57-85. They found that CRP was about 15 percent lower for people who volunteered several times per year than for those who did not volunteer during the past year.
 "Why this effect? Older adults are either losing or reducing their involvement in highly institutionalized roles, such as retirement or their children leaving the home," Kim said.
 "Volunteering allows them to engage in meaningful roles and stay active." "Volunteering helps many people see what is important in life and how fortunate we are," Ferraro said.
 "Having the feeling that you are making difference in a person's life is powerful, and our own problems may not seem so important.
 I also think volunteering is special because one gets to select the nature of volunteering. You are not coerced; you have some choice in it.
" The researchers also analyzed if too much volunteering was an issue, but they found no negative consequences for those who volunteered the most.
 CRP was lowest among those who volunteered several times per week - about 25 percent lower than for those who did not volunteer.
 The researchers will next examine the mechanisms between volunteering and physical health, as well as cultural differences. "In gerontology we are interested in people living well as they live longer," Kim said.
 "The relationship between volunteering and inflammation is telling because it's related to their quality of life and disease prevention.
" The research was supported by the National Institute on Aging and the National Research Foundation of Korea. Note to Journalists
: Journalists interested in a copy of the journal article can contact Amy Patterson Neubert, Purdue News Service, at 765-494-9723, 
apatterson@purdue.edu Do Productive Activities Reduce Inflammation in Later Life? Multiple Roles, Frequency of Activities, and C-Reactive Protein
 Purpose of the Study: The study investigates whether productive activities by older adults reduce bodily inflammation, as indicated by C-reactive protein (CRP), a biomeasure associated with the risk of cardiovascular diseases.
 Design and Methods: The study uses a representative survey of adults aged 57-85 from the National Social Life, Health and Aging Project (N = 1,790).
 Linear regression models were used to analyze the effects of multiple roles (employment, volunteering, attending meetings and caregiving) and the frequency of activity within each role on log values of CRP concentration (mg/L) drawn from assayed blood samples.
 Results: Number of roles for productive activities was associated with lower levels of CRP net of chronic conditions, lifestyle factors and socioeconomic resources.
 When specific types of activity were examined, volunteering manifested the strongest association with lower levels of inflammation, particularly in the 70+ group.
 There was no evidence that frequent engagement in volunteer activity was associated with heightened inflammation. Implications: 
Productive activities - and frequent volunteering in particular - may protect individuals from inflammation that is associated with increased risk of hypertension and cardiovascular disease.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/study-online-tools-accelerating-earthquake-engineering-progress.html
<Content> Study: Online tools accelerating earthquake-engineering progress
 Santiago Pujol, at far left, a Purdue associate professor of civil engineering, surveys a private residence damaged in a Haiti earthquake.
 The building was among 170 surveyed by civil engineers studying the effects of the January 2010 earthquake. Such photos and research-related information regarding earthquakes are part of a database maintained and serviced by the National Science Foundation's George E.
 Brown Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation (NEES), based at Purdue. (Purdue University photo/Kari T. Nasi) Download Photo
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A new study has found that online tools, access to experimental data and other services provided through "cyberinfrastructure" are helping to accelerate progress in earthquake engineering and science.
 The research is affiliated with the National Science Foundation's George E. Brown Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation
 (NEES), based at Purdue University. NEES includes 14 laboratories for earthquake engineering and tsunami research, tied together with cyberinfrastructure to provide information technology for the network.
 The cyberinfrastructure includes a centrally maintained, Web-based science gateway called NEEShub, which houses experimental results and makes them available for reuse by researchers, practitioners and educational communities.
 "It's a one-stop shopping site for the earthquake-engineering community to access really valuable intellectual contributions as well as experimental data generated from projects at the NEES sites," said Thomas Hacker, an associate professor in the Department of Computer and Information Technology at Purdue and co-leader of information technology for NEES.
 "The NEES cyberinfrastructure provides critical information technology services in support of earthquake engineering research and helps to accelerate science and engineering progress in a substantial way.
" Findings from a recent study about cyberinfrastructure's impact on the field were detailed in a paper published in a special issue of the Journal of Structural Engineering, which coincides with a NEES Quake Summit 2013 on Aug.
 7-8 in Reno. The paper was authored by Hacker; Rudolf Eigenmann, a professor in Purdue's School of Electrical and Computer Engineering; and Ellen Rathje, a professor in the Department of Civil, Architectural, and Environmental Engineering at the University of Texas, Austin.
 A major element of the NEES cyberinfrastructure is a "project warehouse" that provides a place for researchers to upload project data, documents, papers and dissertations containing important experimental knowledge for the NEES community to access.
 "A key factor in our efforts is the very strong involvement of experts in earthquake engineering and civil engineering in every aspect of our IT," Hacker said.
 "The software we develop and services we provide are driven by user requirements prioritized by the community. This is an example of a large-scale cyberinfrastructure project that is really working to address big-data needs and developing technologies and solutions that work today.
 It's a good example of how cyberinfrastructure can help knit together distributed communities or researchers into something greater than the sum of its parts.
" "The technological elements include high-speed networks, laptops, servers and software," he said. "The sociology includes the software-development process, the way we gather and prioritize user requirements and needs and our work with user communities.
 To be successful, a cyberinfrastructure effort needs to address both the technology and social elements, which has been our approach.
" The project warehouse and NEEShub collects "metadata," or descriptive information about research needed to ensure that the information can be accessed in the future.
 "Say you have an experiment with sensors over a structure to collect data like voltages over time or force displacements over time," Eigenmann said.
 "What's important for context is not only the data collected, but from which sensor, when the experiment was conducted, where the sensor was placed on the structure.
 When someone comes along later to reuse the information they need the metadata." The resources are curated, meaning the data are organized in a fashion that ensures they haven't been modified and are valid for reference in the future.
 NEEShub contains more than 1.6 million project files stored in more than 398,000 project directories and has been shown to have at least 65,000 users over the past year.
 Other metrics information is available at http://nees.org/usage. "We are seeing continued growth in the number of users," Rathje said.
 "We are helping to facilitate and enable the discovery process. We have earthquake engineering experts and civil engineering experts closely involved with every aspect of our IT and cyberinfrastructure, and we are constantly getting feedback and prototyping.
" To help quantify the impact on research, projects are ranked by how many times they are downloaded. One project alone has had 3.3 million files downloaded.
 "We have a curation dashboard for each project, which gives the curation status of the information so that users know whether it's ready to be cited and used," Hacker said.
 "It's like a permanent identifier that goes with the data set," he said. "It gives you a permanent link to the data." NEES researchers will continue to study the impact of cyberinfrastructure on engineering and scientific progress.
 "The use and adoption of cybeinfrastructure by a community is a process," Hacker said. "At the beginning of the process we can measure the number of visitors and people accessing information.
 The ultimate impact of the cyberinfrastructure will be reflected in outcomes such as the number of publications that have benefited from using the cyberinfrastructure.
 It takes several years to follow that process and we are in the middle of that right now, but evidence points to a significant impact.
" Note to Journalists: Information about the NEES annual Quake Summit 2013 is available at http://nees.org/quakesummit2013. An electronic copy of the research paper is available from Emil Venere, (765) 494-4709, 
venere@purdue.edu Thomas Hacker 1; Rudolf Eigenmann 2; and Ellen Rathje, M.ASCE 3 Network Earthquake Engineering Simulation Hub: 
 Science Foundation George E. Brown, Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation, Purdue University (corresponding author).
 E-mail: tjhacker@purdue.edu 3 Professor, Department of Civil, Architectural, and Environmental Engineering, NEES, Univ. of Texas, Austin
 This paper describes the cyberinfrastructure (CI) of the George E. Brown, Jr. Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation (NEES) and examines the evidence that this infrastructure is facilitating earthquake engineering research.
 Among the key features of the CI are the NEES Project Warehouse (PW), which is a data repository for earthquake engineering, an environment that supports the use of tools for web-based data analysis and simulation, and tools that support research collaboration.
 The value that such CI offers to the user community is discussed. The CI also gathers a myriad of usage statistics, some of which are presented in this paper.
 Among them are the number of users, pageviews, recorded NEES projects, and other stored resources. This information demonstrates that the CI is used significantly and increasingly so.
 DOI: 10.1061/(ASCE)ST.1943-541X.0000712. © 2013 American Society of Civil Engineers. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/study-teens-smoking-influenced-by-older-siblings,-parents-lifelong-smoking-habits.html
<Content> Study: Teens' smoking influenced by older siblings, parents' lifelong smoking habits
 Mike Vuolo, a Purdue assistant professor of sociology who studies youth behavior and substance use, found that teens who smoke are significantly influenced by whether older siblings smoke as well as if their parents smoke now or did in the past.
 His research was published in the journal Pediatrics. (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Teens who smoke are significantly influenced by whether older siblings smoke as well as if their parents smoke now or did in the past, according to research from Purdue University.
 "It's no surprise that the children of heavy smokers smoked, but what is surprising is that the rate of teens whose parents started smoking later in life or who had quit or reduced their smoking was just as high, if not higher," said Mike Vuolo, an assistant professor of sociology who studies youth behavior and substance use.
 "The children of later-life smokers were 29 percent more likely to smoke, and that number was higher than children of heavy smokers or those whose parents started smoking as teenagers but had quit or reduced their amount.
 "Even though these rates are high, young teens are more likely to smoke if an older sibling does, or if they live with a parent who is a heavy smoker.
 Based on these findings, antismoking prevention for youth really needs to target the children of parents who smoked at any time in their life, as well as if siblings are smoking.
" The findings are published in Pediatrics, and the National Institutes of Health funded the work. The data is based on 214 adults who have been surveyed regularly since 1988 beginning at age 14 in the Youth Development Study.
 This data covers the adults up to age 38. The 314 children of these adults were ages 11-19. Vuolo, who led the study, also worked with Jeremy Staff, an associate professor of criminology and sociology at Penn State University.
 The Youth Development Study is run by the University of Minnesota. "Parents' influence on youth smoking is not new, but the quality of this data has followed the parents for more than 20 years and shows the history of their smoking patterns, specifically length and amount, and how that has affected their children," Vuolo said.
 Most previous research also is based on one-time surveys that rely on retrospective feedback from parents. Because parents' smoking could be tracked for 24 years, the parents could be separated into four groups: non-smokers, heavy smokers, light smokers or those who had quit, and late-onset smokers who didn't start smoking until early adulthood.
 Eight percent of non-smokers' children had smoked in the past year and 25 percent the children of heavy smokers (at least half a pack a day) reported smoking.
 The data showed that children of parents who started smoking as teenagers and who had quit or reduced their smoking by age 38 smoked at a rate 23 percent, and the highest percentage of youth smoking, at 29 percent, was by children of parents who started smoking later in life in their 20s.
 "The similarities for the three smoking groups were surprising," Vuolo said. "I thought the children of smokers who had reduced their smoking or quit would be significantly lower than the other two groups.
 We controlled for many variables, such as socioeconomic status and the relationship between the parent and child, but nothing stands out why this is.
 So we'd like to take a closer look at individual specifics - did parents smoke in front of children or were children exposed to their efforts to quit?
 More than half of these parents quit smoking, and some of these parents quit smoking when their children were young, so how did that influence their children?
" While the influence of parents' smoking history is attention grabbing, Vuolo said it is important to not overlook the sibling effect.
 An older sibling who smokes is 15 times more likely to occur in the heavy smoking households than the non-smoking households, and a younger sibling is six times more likely to smoke if they have an older sibling who smokes.
 "In fact, if there was a sibling present in the light smoking or the early-onset smoking environment the effect still holds; it's just that it's much more likely to happen in the heavy smoking households," Vuolo said.
 Vuolo plans to continue looking at this topic as well as similar parental influences in alcohol use. "One aspect to keep in mind is that other research shows that heavy smokers are more likely to have children at younger ages, so they may be overrepresented in this population because they have teenagers at age 38," Vuolo said.
 "If we did the same analysis 10 years from now, when the non-smokers' children are more likely to be teenagers, what would we see?
" Objectives: Using longitudinal data from the multigenerational Youth Development Study (YDS), this article documents how parents' long-term smoking trajectories are associated with adolescent children's likelihood of smoking.
 Prospective data from the parents (from age 14-38 years) enable unique comparisons of the parents' and children's smoking behavior, as well as that of siblings.
 Methods: Smoking trajectories are constructed using latent class analysis for original YDS cohort (n = 1010). Multigenerational longitudinal data from 214 parents and 314 offspring ages 11 years and older are then analyzed by using logistic regression with cluster-corrected standard errors.
 Results: Four latent smoking trajectories emerged among the original cohort: stable nonsmokers (54 percent), early onset light smokers who quit/reduce (16 percent), late-onset persistent smokers (14 percent), and early-onset persistent heavy smokers (16 percent).
 Although eight percent of children of stable nonsmokers smoked in the last year, the other groups' children had much higher percentages, ranging from 23-29 percent.
 Multivariate logistic regression models confirm that these significant differences were robust to the inclusion of myriad child- and parent-level measures (for which child age and grade point average [GPA] are significant predictors).
 Older sibling smoking, however, meditated the link between parental heavy smoking and child smoking. Conclusions: Even in an era of declining rates of teenage cigarette use in the United States, children of current and former smokers face an elevated risk of smoking.
 Prevention efforts to weaker intergenerational associations should consider parents' long-term cigarette use, as well as the smoking behavior of older siblings in the household.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/study-those-briefly-ostracized,-recover-more-quickly-if-they-previously-were-given-focused-attention-training.html
<Content> Study: Those briefly ostracized, recover more quickly if they previously were given focused attention training
 Study: Those briefly ostracized, recover more quickly if they previously were given focused attention training WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.
 — When people are briefly ostracized, they feel distress that may linger for some time, however, they recover more quickly from the experience if they are better prepared mentally to focus on something else, shows a new study from Purdue University and the University of Lille, France.
 "When confronted with short episodes of ostracism, the best way to cope is to not ruminate on the experience but to focus on the present rather than relive the past," said 
Kipling D. Williams, Purdue professor of psychological sciences, who has studied ostracism for 20 years. "We know ostracism is painful, even in illogical circumstances, and in some cases is an invisible form of bullying.
 Some people have better coping skills, but there can be severe consequences for others who feel excluded, rejected or are given the silent treatment.
" Research shows that ostracism is harmful and resonates in the same area of the brain as physical pain, so scientists are focusing on possible coping mechanisms.
 In this study, which is published online in the journal Consciousness and Cognition, the researchers provided one group of adults with 12 minutes of instruction on a breathing technique that helps people direct their focus.
 During this time, the control group was told to think about what they would normally think about. Then all 48 subjects played an online game in which they were included or ostracized.
 The subjects were evaluated immediately after the game to see if they were bothered by the experience, and then again about 5 minutes later.
 "Those who were recently trained to focus their attention on the here and now apparently used it afterwards without the researchers instructing them to," said 
Mikaël Molet, an assistant professor of psychology at the University of Lille who led the study. "And very few of them reported the ostracism experience still bothered them.
 At the same time, those who were not instructed on this focusing technique were still bothered by the exclusion. "The breathing technique didn't make the pain any easier for anyone who was excluded, but it does suggest that something like the focusing techniques of positive psychology, known as mindfulness training,
 can speed the coping and recovering from an ostracism experience." Both Molet and Williams will continue evaluating possible coping strategies.
 This is a small laboratory study that needs additional follow up to measure how long the effects last and to review the technique's effectiveness outside of a laboratory, the researchers said.
 They also noted the focused breathing technique used here was an abbreviated training session of what are usually multiple long-term instruction sessions.
 "That's what is so surprising here, just 12 minutes of training made a difference, and they weren't told to use it or reminded of it again.
 Just a brief training was enough to help them," Williams said. "We hope to build on this work and better understand how to help people.
 The findings were consistent and significant for this short-term experience, but could this be like grieving? Does the focus distract or postpone the pain?
 That's another question we need to answer." Ostracism - being excluded and ignored - thwarts satisfaction of four fundamental needs: belonging, self-esteem, control and meaningful existence.
 The current study investigated whether training participants to focus on their attention on the here-and-now (i.e., focused attention) reduces distress from an ostracism experience.
 Participants were first trained in either focused or unfocused attention, and then played Cyberball, an online ball-tossing game for which half the participants were included or ostracized.
 Participants reported their levels of need satisfaction during the game, and after a short delay. Whereas both training groups experienced the same degree of need-threat in the immediate measure, participants who were trained in focused attention showed more recovery for the delayed measure.
 We reason that focused attention would not reduce the distress during the ostracism experience, but it aided in recovery by preventing participants from reliving the ostracism experience after it concludes.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/study-when-dads-play-favorites-the-kids-know.html
<Content> Study: When dads play favorites; the kids know
 Research by Megan Gilligan, a Purdue doctoral student in sociology, and Jill Suitor, a professor of sociology, found that sibling Baby Boomers are likely to be more bothered by their fathers' favoring one over another than by their mothers' doing so.
 (Purdue University photo/Mark Simons) WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Sibling Baby Boomers are likely to be more bothered by their fathers' favoring one over another than by their mothers' doing so, reports a new Purdue University study.
 "It didn't matter who fathers favored. When favoritism was perceived there was tension among siblings, especially daughters," said Megan Gilligan, a Purdue doctoral student in sociology who is lead author on the article.
 "Often the role of fathers is overlooked in these older relationships, but what we found shows dads do matter." This research, which is published in the July issue of the 
Journal of Gerontology, Series B: Psychological Sciences and Social Sciences, looked at 137 later-life families with both parents still alive when the data was collected in 2008.
 The average age of the 341 siblings was 49, and they were asked about tension among each other and the perceived favoritism by their parents.
 The parents were in their 70s and 80s, and the fathers were an average of three years older than the mothers. "The importance of fathers' favoritism may come from these older adults noticing many of their friends' fathers no longer living, so they may value their dads even more than before; they realize their time together is limited," said Jill Suitor, a professor of sociology and article co-author.
 Previous research by Suitor, Gilligan and Karl Pillemer, professor of human development in the College of Human Ecology at Cornell University, showed that if mothers favored a child, it caused sibling tension.
 However, that work focused only on mothers' favoritism. By looking at both living parents in this recent article, the researchers were able to evaluate the consequences of favoritism from both parents.
 This research is based on the survey data from the Within-Family Difference Study, led by Suitor and Pillemer to evaluate the role favoritism plays in adult family relationships.
 The data for the 13-year project were collected in the Boston metropolitan area. The project is funded by the National Institute on Aging.
 "The implications of these findings will be important to practitioners," Pillemer said. "We often think of the family as a single unit, and this reminds us that individual parent and child relationships differ and each family is very complex.
 Favoritism from the father could mean something different than favoritism from the mother. We suggest that clinicians who work with families on later-life issues be aware of this complexity and look for such types of individual relationships as they advise families on care giving, legal and financial issues.
" The difference in this research could be the result of the role fathers played in this older generation. "Fathers are important figures in families, and the father-child relationship is sometimes more tenuous than the mother-child tie," Suitor said.
 "Mothers are often more open and affectionate with their children, whereas fathers have sometimes been found to be more critical, leading offspring to be more concerned when fathers favor some children over others.
" This also could play a role in why daughters experience more tension with their siblings when fathers favor them. "The gender difference may occur because fathers, as other studies have shown, often invest more in their sons, thus, the favoritism shown toward daughters may violate these norms and result in greater sibling tension," Gilligan said.
 "For these reasons, when adult children perceive their fathers as engaging in favoritism, there may be greater concern about competition for his affection and support, resulting in higher levels of sibling tension.
" Gilligan and Suitor also said that these values and norms may have changed since the Baby Boomer generation. Suitor, Pillemer and Gilligan plan to extend the present project to include interviewing the Baby Boomers about their own adult children.
 Suitor and Gilligan are members of the Center on Aging and the Life Course. Gilligan will graduate in August and will begin as an assistant professor of human development and family studies at Iowa State University.
 Pillemer is the director of the Cornell University Institute for Translational Research on Aging at Cornell University. Seoyoun Kim, a Purdue graduate student in sociology and a member of the Center on Aging and the Life Course, also is a co-author.
 Note to Journalists: Journalists interested in a copy of the journal article can contact Amy Patterson Neubert, Purdue News Service, 765-494-9723, 
apatterson@purdue.edu Differential Effects of Perceptions of Mothers' and Fathers' Favoritism on Sibling Tension in Adulthood Objectives.
 We examine the differential effects of perceived maternal and paternal favoritism in adulthood on sibling tensions in adulthood.
 Method. Data used in the analysis were collected from 341 adult children nested within 137 later-life families as part of the Within-Family Differences Study.
 Results. Adult children's perceptions that their fathers currently favored any offspring in the family predicted reports of tension with their siblings, whereas perceptions of mothers' favoritism did not.
 Fathers' favoritism was a stronger predictor of daughters' than sons' reports of sibling tension. Discussion. These findings contribute to a growing body of research demonstrating the consequences of parental favoritism in adulthood.
 Equally important, they demonstrate that perceptions of fathers' current favoritism plays an even greater role in shaping their adult children's sibling relations than do mothers' favoritism.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/super-resolution-microscope-possible-for-nanostructures.html
<Content> 'Super-resolution' microscope possible for nanostructures
 A new type of super-resolution optical microscopy takes a high-resolution image (at right) of graphite "nanoplatelets" about 100 nanometers wide.
 The imaging system, called saturated transient absorption microscopy, or STAM, uses a trio of laser beams and represents a practical tool for biomedical and nanotechnology research.
 (Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, Purdue University) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Researchers have found a way to see synthetic nanostructures and molecules using a new type of super-resolution optical microscopy that does not require fluorescent dyes, representing a practical tool for biomedical and nanotechnology research.
 "Super-resolution optical microscopy has opened a new window into the nanoscopic world," said Ji-Xin Cheng, an associate professor of biomedical engineering and chemistry at Purdue University.
 Conventional optical microscopes can resolve objects no smaller than about 300 nanometers, or billionths of a meter, a restriction known as the "diffraction limit," which is defined as half the width of the wavelength of light being used to view the specimen.
 However, researchers want to view molecules such as proteins and lipids, as well as synthetic nanostructures like nanotubes, which are a few nanometers in diameter.
 Such a capability could bring advances in a diverse range of disciplines, from medicine to nanoelectronics, Cheng said. "The diffraction limit represents the fundamental limit of optical imaging resolution," Cheng said.
 "Stefan Hell at the Max Planck Institute and others have developed super-resolution imaging methods that require fluorescent labels.
 Here, we demonstrate a new scheme for breaking the diffraction limit in optical imaging of non-fluorescent species. Because it is label-free, the signal is directly from the object so that we can learn more about the nanostructure.
" Findings are detailed in a research paper that appeared online Sunday (April 28) in the journal Nature Photonics. The imaging system, called saturated transient absorption microscopy,
 or STAM, uses a trio of laser beams, including a doughnut-shaped laser beam that selectively illuminates some molecules but not others.
 Electrons in the atoms of illuminated molecules are kicked temporarily into a higher energy level and are said to be excited, while the others remain in their "ground state.
" Images are generated using a laser called a probe to compare the contrast between the excited and ground-state molecules. The researchers demonstrated the technique, taking images of graphite "nanoplatelets" about 100 nanometers wide.
 "It's a proof of concept and has great potential for the study of nanomaterials, both natural and synthetic," Cheng said. The doughnut-shaped laser excitation technique, invented by researcher Stefan Hell, makes it possible to focus on yet smaller objects.
 Researchers hope to improve the imaging system to see objects about 10 nanometers in diameter, or about 30 times smaller than possible using conventional optical microscopes.
 "We are not there yet, but a few schemes can be applied to further increase the resolution of our system," Cheng said. The paper was co-authored by biomedical engineering doctoral student Pu Wang; research scientist Mikhail N.
 Slipchenko; mechanical engineering doctoral student James Mitchell; Chen Yang, an assistant professor of physical chemistry at Purdue; Eric O.
 Potma, an associate professor of chemistry at the University of California, Irvine; Xianfan Xu, Purdue's James J. and Carol L. Shuttleworth Professor of Mechanical Engineering; and Cheng.
 Future research may include work to use lasers with shorter wavelengths of light. Because the wavelengths are shorter, the doughnut hole is smaller, possibly allowing researchers to focus on smaller objects.
 The work will be discussed during the third annual Spectroscopic Imaging: A New Window into the Unseen World workshop on May 23 and 24 at Purdue.
 The workshop is hosted by the university's Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering. More workshop information is available at http://www.conf.purdue.edu/cheng
 The research is funded by the National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
 Note to Journalists: Ji-Xin Cheng's name is pronounced "Gee-Shin." Journalists may obtain a copy of the research paper by contacting Nature at 
press@nature.com or calling 212-726-9231. Pu Wang1, #, Mikhail N. Slipchenko1, #, James Mitchell2, Chen Yang3, Eric O. Potma4, Xianfan Xu
2, Ji-Xin Cheng13, *4 Super-resolution optical microscopy is opening a new window to unveil the unseen details on the nanoscopic scale.
 Current far-field super-resolution techniques rely on fluorescence as the read-out. Here, we demonstrate a scheme for breaking the diffraction limit in far-field imaging of non-fluorescent species by using spatially controlled saturation of electronic absorption.
 Our method is based on a pump-probe process where a modulated pump field perturbs the charge-carrier density in a sample, thus modulating the transmission of a probe field.
 A doughnut shape laser beam is then added to transiently saturate the electronic transition in the periphery of the focal volume, thus the induced modulation in the sequential probe pulse only occurs at the focal center.
 By raster scanning the three collinearly aligned beams, high-speed sub-diffraction-limited imaging of graphite nano-platelets was performed.
 This technique potentially enables super-resolution imaging of nano-materials and non-fluorescent chromophores, which may remain out of reach for fluorescence-based methods.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/supersonic-pingpong-bazooka-blasts-balls-at-mach-1.23.html
<Content> Supersonic pingpong bazooka blasts balls at Mach 1.23
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue University mechanical engineering technology professor has built a new air-powered bazooka that shoots pingpong balls at speeds faster than an F-16 fighter jet, blowing the doors off similar far less powerful devices peers use to explain physics properties.
 Mark French drew on his experience as an aeronautical engineer for the U. S. Air Force to create a device that blasts balls clean through plywood or aluminum and deeply dents steel.
 Online video of the bazooka destroying pingpong paddles, VHS tapes and a series of soda pop cans has generated more than a half million views.
 Previous devices propelled balls by popping the seal on a vacuum tube. French had his doctoral students Craig Zehrung and Jim Stratton create a pressure chamber connected to the vacuum tube via a convergent-divergent nozzle.
 "That hourglass-shaped nozzle is similar to what is used in fighter jets," French said. "When the pressurized air rushes through the bottleneck it accelerates to supersonic speed as it helps propel the ball through the clear PVC barrel.
" French says the supersonic speeds are surprising because the lightweight balls have such poor aerodynamics and high-drag coefficient.
 At a mere 2.3 grams, the balls deliver a startling amount of energy to targets - the equivalent of a 125 mph fastball or a brick falling several stories.
 "There is not enough money you could give me to get me to step in front of that gun," French said. French uses the gun as an educational device for his students in the 
College of Technology and as an outreach tool during demonstrations for a wide variety of schoolchildren. Note to Journalists: Broadcast-quality B-roll, sound bites and package are available.
 Contact Jim Schenke, Purdue News Service, at 765-237-7296, or jschenke@purdue.edu. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/swift-fuels-llc-opens-aviation-gasoline-blending-facility.html
<Content> Swift Fuels LLC opens aviation gasoline blending facility
 Employees from Swift Fuels LLC and dignitaries from Greater Lafayette cut a ribbon Friday (Sept. 13) at the site of Swift Fuel's aviation fuel blending facility.
 Swift Fuels officials invested $2.5 million in the facility and a pilot scale production facility to further commercialize their unleaded high-octane gasoline.
 (Purdue Research Foundation photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - More than 100 people attended an event Friday (Sept. 13) to unveil two facilities in Greater Lafayette that could bolster the process to commercialize an unleaded high-octane gasoline called 100SF.
 Officials from Swift Fuels LLC, based in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette, held a ribbon-cutting ceremony to open their new aviation fuel blending facility in Lafayette, Ind.
 They also broke ground on their new pilot plant operations. The new facilities are located at 3937 U.S. Highway 52 S. at County Road 400 S.
 The company is investing $2.5 million in the operating facilities. The blending facility will store at least 50,000 gallons of unleaded, high-octane aviation components for sales and shipment.
 The pilot plant will produce more than 10,000 gallons of 100SF per month when it reaches full capacity. Chris D'Acosta, CEO of Swift Fuels, said the company's 100SF aviation gasoline can be used in all general aviation piston engine aircraft worldwide.
 "There are more than 165,000 general aviation aircraft in the United States alone, and they operate on leaded aviation gasoline today because an unleaded high-octane fuel needed to operate aircraft has not been available until now," he said.
 "Swift Fuels' 100SF was developed to replace leaded aviation gasoline. We are transitioning from several years of research and development to the start-up of this fuel blending and pilot scale production facility, which will strengthen our commercialization efforts in various fuels markets.
" Dignitaries at the event included State Reps. Sheila Klinker and Randy Truitt; Lafayette Mayor Tony Roswarski; West Lafayette Mayor John Dennis; Tippecanoe County Commissioner Tom Murtaugh; Joe Seaman and Erin Nelson of Greater Lafayette Commerce; and Dan Hasler, president and chief entrepreneurial officer of the 
Purdue Research Foundation. Swift Fuels LLC officials display an airplane powered by their 100SF unleaded high-octane gasoline during an event in Lafayette, Ind.
 (Purdue Research Foundation photo) Download Photo "The Swift Fuels expansion is a model for what we are trying to do with a university and community partnership," he said.
 "The end result is a better, stronger community that helps everybody, and we'd like to see it happen more often." The pilot plant is being built in Nebraska, and will be delivered to Lafayette within four weeks.
 D'Acosta said one of the key features of the pilot plant is its versatility. "The pilot plant will be a continuous operation. It can produce the unleaded high-octane gasoline from petroleum or bio-sourced material," he said.
 "This provides Swift Fuels many options on how to serve various markets." D'Acosta said the process to commercialize 100SF will include meeting guidelines from federal and international organizations.
 "Currently we are working with ASTM International, a cross-industry collaborative group, on the production specification of 100SF," he said.
 "We also must meet Federal Aviation Administration standards in coordinating efforts for an ultimate fleet-wide certification." 
 Established in 2012, Swift Fuels was initially created by merging the interests between Swift Development Renewable Fuels LLC and South Dakota-based RMB Energy to scale up production of a high-octane, unleaded, general aviation gasoline and bring this fuel to market.
 Swift Fuels' corporate goal is to develop high-performance fuels and fuel-blending components to serve the global aviation industry.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The parks are home to about 200 companies that employ about 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 Source: Chris D'Acosta, Swift Fuels LLC, 765-464-8336, chris.dacosta@swiftfuels.com </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/swift-fuels-to-hold-ceremonies-sept.-13-for-fuel-blending-facility-and-renewable-fuels-pilot-plant.html
<Content> Swift Fuels to hold ceremonies Sept. 13 for fuel blending facility and renewable fuels pilot plant
 Swift Fuels to hold ceremonies Sept. 13 for fuel blending facility and renewable fuels pilot plant WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Officials from 
Swift Fuels LLC, based in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette, on Friday (Sept. 13) will conduct a ribbon-cutting ceremony for their new aviation fuel blending facility and break ground for their new pilot plant operations at 3937 U.S.
 Highway 52 S. at County Road 400 S., Lafayette. The event will be 10 a.m. to noon. The new aviation fuel blending terminal and renewable fuels pilot plant are about one mile south of Nanshan America.
 Scheduled speakers include Lafayette Mayor Tony Roswarski; Dan Hasler, president and chief entrepreneurial officer of the Purdue Research Foundation
; Erin Nelson, program manager at Greater Lafayette Commerce; and Chris D'Acosta, CEO of Swift Fuels. Swift Fuels has developed an unleaded high-octane aviation gasoline called 100SF that can be used in all general aviation piston engine aircraft worldwide.
 "There are more than 165,000 general aviation aircraft in the United States alone, and they operate on leaded aviation gasoline today because an unleaded high-octane fuel needed to operate aircraft has not been available until now," D'Acosta said.
 "Swift Fuels' 100SF was developed to replace leaded aviation gasoline. We are transitioning from several years of research and development to the start-up of this fuel blending and pilot scale production facility, which will strengthen our commercialization efforts in various fuels markets.
" The facility will store at least 50,000 gallons of unleaded, high-octane aviation fuel components for sales and shipment to Swift Fuels' customers.
 The pilot plant will produce more than 10,000 gallons of 100SF per month when it reaches full capacity. Swift Fuels personnel developed 100SF in their research facility in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette and currently plan to continue to operate their headquarters and R&D at that location.
 A news release will be distributed to media at the event, and interviews with Swift Fuels executives can be arranged in advance by contacting Steve Martin, Purdue Research Foundation, 765-588-3342, 
sgmartin@prf.org Established in 2012, Swift Fuels was initially created by merging the interests between Swift Development Renewable Fuels LLC and South Dakota-based RMB Energy to scale up production of a high-octane, unleaded, general aviation gasoline and bring this fuel to market.
 Swift Fuels' corporate goal is to develop high performance fuels and fuel blending components to serve the global aviation industry.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The parks are home to about 200 companies that employ about 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/symposium-led-by-purdue,-s.-korea-teams-to-focus-on-advancements-in-organ-on-a-chip-research.html
<Content> Symposium led by Purdue, S. Korea teams to focus on advancements in organ-on-a-chip research
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Research teams from Purdue University's Discovery Park and the Korean Institute of Science and Technology
 will meet May 16 for a symposium highlighting their work in advancing organ-on-a-chip activities. The daylong event, the eighth in the series since the partnership was formed in 2006, is titled Organ-on-a-Chip and will run from 10:30 a.m.
 to 4:30 p.m. in the Martin Jischke Hall of Biomedical Engineering, Room 2001. Ali Khademhosseini, an associate professor at Harvard-MIT's Division of Health Sciences and Technology, the Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Harvard Medical School, will deliver the keynote address titled "Microengineered Hydrogels for Tissue Engineering" at 3:30 p.m.
 Organizers of the annual symposium include Bindley Bioscience Center, Birck Nanotechnology Center, the School of Biomedical Engineering and Discovery Park as well as the Korean Institute of Science and Technology (KIST).
 The event is free and open to the Purdue campus and general public. "Microfluidic systems are now being developed to model biological environments and physically mimic biological tissues and organs," said symposium co-organizer James Leary, SVM Professor of Nanomedicine and professor of basic medical sciences in the College of Veterinary Medicine and professor of biomedical engineering in the Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering.
 "Such 'organs-on-a-chip' methods, which are the focus of this year's Purdue-KIST symposium, could have an important role in expediting early stages of drug discovery and help reduce reliance on animal testing.
 It's exciting for Purdue to be a part of this important conversation in the areas of research and learning." Organ-on-a-chip is a multichannel 3-D microfluidic cell culture chip that simulates the activities, mechanics and physiological response of entire organs and organ systems, opening the door for using this approach instead of animals in drug development and other testing.
 The symposium will include presentations by researchers from KIST, Purdue and the Methodist Hospital Research Institute in Houston: 
 * 10:35-11:15 a.m. - "Nanotechnology for siRNA Delivery" by Kwangmeyung Kim, senior research scientist, Center for Theragnosis, Biomedical Research Institute at KIST.
 * 11:20 a.m. to noon - "Biophotonic Nanoparticles for In Vivo Disease Imaging" by Sehoon Kim, senior research scientist, Center for Theragnosis, Biomedical Research Institute at KIST.
 * 1-1:30 p.m. - "Activatable Fluorescent Probe Imaging in Aortic Aneurysms and Myocardial Infarction" by Craig Goergen, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Purdue.
 * 1:30-2 p.m. - "Magnetic Nanoconstructs for MR Imaging and Nanomanipulation" by Paolo Decuzzi, professor of biomedical engineering and mechanical engineering at the Methodist Hospital Research Institute.
 * 2-2:30 p.m. - "Tunable Collagen Polymers for Advancement of In-Vitro 3-D Models of Human Tissues" by Sherry Harbin, associate professor of biomedical engineering at Purdue.
 * 2:30-3 p.m. - "Tumor-Microenvironment-on-Chip: Integrated Systems Biology Approach for Predictive Tumor Model" by Bumsoo Han, associate professor of mechanical engineering and biomedical engineering at Purdue.
 Khademhosseini, also a faculty member at the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, has received early career awards from the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBS), IEEE Nanotechnology award, the Colburn award from the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, and the Y.C.
 Fung award from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. In 2011 he won the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE), the highest honor given by the U.S.
 government for early career investigators. His research is based on developing microscale and nanoscale technologies to control cellular behavior with an emphasis in developing microscale biomaterials and engineering systems for tissue engineering.
 In 2006 the South Korean Ministry of Science and Technology selected the KIST and Purdue team project from 20 international research proposals submitted to examine how to learn more about the molecular makeup of diseases.
 The $4.5 million research initiative, which spans nine years, now involves several KIST and Purdue researchers working to advance the role that nanoparticles can play in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer or chronic diseases like diabetes and multiple sclerosis.
 The research also focuses on next-generation tools that would aid the medical community in what's known as theragnosis - combining simultaneous diagnostics and therapeutics.
 The Korean Ministry of Science and Technology provides central planning, coordination and evaluation of all science and technology activities in South Korea.
 The agency also formulates national policies in the areas of technology, space and nuclear energy. Source: James Leary, 765-494-7280, 
jfleary@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/symposium-led-by-purdue,-s.-korea-teams-to-focus-on-advancements-in-organ-on-a-chip-research.html
<Content> Symposium led by Purdue, S. Korea teams to focus on advancements in organ-on-a-chip research
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Research teams from Purdue University's Discovery Park and the Korean Institute of Science and Technology
 will meet May 16 for a symposium highlighting their work in advancing organ-on-a-chip activities. The daylong event, the eighth in the series since the partnership was formed in 2006, is titled Organ-on-a-Chip and will run from 10:30 a.m.
 to 4:30 p.m. in the Martin Jischke Hall of Biomedical Engineering, Room 2001. Ali Khademhosseini, an associate professor at Harvard-MIT's Division of Health Sciences and Technology, the Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Harvard Medical School, will deliver the keynote address titled "Microengineered Hydrogels for Tissue Engineering" at 3:30 p.m.
 Organizers of the annual symposium include Bindley Bioscience Center, Birck Nanotechnology Center, the School of Biomedical Engineering and Discovery Park as well as the Korean Institute of Science and Technology (KIST).
 The event is free and open to the Purdue campus and general public. "Microfluidic systems are now being developed to model biological environments and physically mimic biological tissues and organs," said symposium co-organizer James Leary, SVM Professor of Nanomedicine and professor of basic medical sciences in the College of Veterinary Medicine and professor of biomedical engineering in the Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering.
 "Such 'organs-on-a-chip' methods, which are the focus of this year's Purdue-KIST symposium, could have an important role in expediting early stages of drug discovery and help reduce reliance on animal testing.
 It's exciting for Purdue to be a part of this important conversation in the areas of research and learning." Organ-on-a-chip is a multichannel 3-D microfluidic cell culture chip that simulates the activities, mechanics and physiological response of entire organs and organ systems, opening the door for using this approach instead of animals in drug development and other testing.
 The symposium will include presentations by researchers from KIST, Purdue and the Methodist Hospital Research Institute in Houston: 
 * 10:35-11:15 a.m. - "Nanotechnology for siRNA Delivery" by Kwangmeyung Kim, senior research scientist, Center for Theragnosis, Biomedical Research Institute at KIST.
 * 11:20 a.m. to noon - "Biophotonic Nanoparticles for In Vivo Disease Imaging" by Sehoon Kim, senior research scientist, Center for Theragnosis, Biomedical Research Institute at KIST.
 * 1-1:30 p.m. - "Activatable Fluorescent Probe Imaging in Aortic Aneurysms and Myocardial Infarction" by Craig Goergen, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Purdue.
 * 1:30-2 p.m. - "Magnetic Nanoconstructs for MR Imaging and Nanomanipulation" by Paolo Decuzzi, professor of biomedical engineering and mechanical engineering at the Methodist Hospital Research Institute.
 * 2-2:30 p.m. - "Tunable Collagen Polymers for Advancement of In-Vitro 3-D Models of Human Tissues" by Sherry Harbin, associate professor of biomedical engineering at Purdue.
 * 2:30-3 p.m. - "Tumor-Microenvironment-on-Chip: Integrated Systems Biology Approach for Predictive Tumor Model" by Bumsoo Han, associate professor of mechanical engineering and biomedical engineering at Purdue.
 Khademhosseini, also a faculty member at the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, has received early career awards from the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBS), IEEE Nanotechnology award, the Colburn award from the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, and the Y.C.
 Fung award from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. In 2011 he won the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE), the highest honor given by the U.S.
 government for early career investigators. His research is based on developing microscale and nanoscale technologies to control cellular behavior with an emphasis in developing microscale biomaterials and engineering systems for tissue engineering.
 In 2006 the South Korean Ministry of Science and Technology selected the KIST and Purdue team project from 20 international research proposals submitted to examine how to learn more about the molecular makeup of diseases.
 The $4.5 million research initiative, which spans nine years, now involves several KIST and Purdue researchers working to advance the role that nanoparticles can play in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer or chronic diseases like diabetes and multiple sclerosis.
 The research also focuses on next-generation tools that would aid the medical community in what's known as theragnosis - combining simultaneous diagnostics and therapeutics.
 The Korean Ministry of Science and Technology provides central planning, coordination and evaluation of all science and technology activities in South Korea.
 The agency also formulates national policies in the areas of technology, space and nuclear energy. Source: James Leary, 765-494-7280, 
jfleary@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/symposium-led-by-purdue,-s.-korea-teams-to-focus-on-advancements-in-organ-on-a-chip-research.html
<Content> Symposium led by Purdue, S. Korea teams to focus on advancements in organ-on-a-chip research
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Research teams from Purdue University's Discovery Park and the Korean Institute of Science and Technology
 will meet May 16 for a symposium highlighting their work in advancing organ-on-a-chip activities. The daylong event, the eighth in the series since the partnership was formed in 2006, is titled Organ-on-a-Chip and will run from 10:30 a.m.
 to 4:30 p.m. in the Martin Jischke Hall of Biomedical Engineering, Room 2001. Ali Khademhosseini, an associate professor at Harvard-MIT's Division of Health Sciences and Technology, the Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Harvard Medical School, will deliver the keynote address titled "Microengineered Hydrogels for Tissue Engineering" at 3:30 p.m.
 Organizers of the annual symposium include Bindley Bioscience Center, Birck Nanotechnology Center, the School of Biomedical Engineering and Discovery Park as well as the Korean Institute of Science and Technology (KIST).
 The event is free and open to the Purdue campus and general public. "Microfluidic systems are now being developed to model biological environments and physically mimic biological tissues and organs," said symposium co-organizer James Leary, SVM Professor of Nanomedicine and professor of basic medical sciences in the College of Veterinary Medicine and professor of biomedical engineering in the Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering.
 "Such 'organs-on-a-chip' methods, which are the focus of this year's Purdue-KIST symposium, could have an important role in expediting early stages of drug discovery and help reduce reliance on animal testing.
 It's exciting for Purdue to be a part of this important conversation in the areas of research and learning." Organ-on-a-chip is a multichannel 3-D microfluidic cell culture chip that simulates the activities, mechanics and physiological response of entire organs and organ systems, opening the door for using this approach instead of animals in drug development and other testing.
 The symposium will include presentations by researchers from KIST, Purdue and the Methodist Hospital Research Institute in Houston: 
 * 10:35-11:15 a.m. - "Nanotechnology for siRNA Delivery" by Kwangmeyung Kim, senior research scientist, Center for Theragnosis, Biomedical Research Institute at KIST.
 * 11:20 a.m. to noon - "Biophotonic Nanoparticles for In Vivo Disease Imaging" by Sehoon Kim, senior research scientist, Center for Theragnosis, Biomedical Research Institute at KIST.
 * 1-1:30 p.m. - "Activatable Fluorescent Probe Imaging in Aortic Aneurysms and Myocardial Infarction" by Craig Goergen, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Purdue.
 * 1:30-2 p.m. - "Magnetic Nanoconstructs for MR Imaging and Nanomanipulation" by Paolo Decuzzi, professor of biomedical engineering and mechanical engineering at the Methodist Hospital Research Institute.
 * 2-2:30 p.m. - "Tunable Collagen Polymers for Advancement of In-Vitro 3-D Models of Human Tissues" by Sherry Harbin, associate professor of biomedical engineering at Purdue.
 * 2:30-3 p.m. - "Tumor-Microenvironment-on-Chip: Integrated Systems Biology Approach for Predictive Tumor Model" by Bumsoo Han, associate professor of mechanical engineering and biomedical engineering at Purdue.
 Khademhosseini, also a faculty member at the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, has received early career awards from the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBS), IEEE Nanotechnology award, the Colburn award from the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, and the Y.C.
 Fung award from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. In 2011 he won the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE), the highest honor given by the U.S.
 government for early career investigators. His research is based on developing microscale and nanoscale technologies to control cellular behavior with an emphasis in developing microscale biomaterials and engineering systems for tissue engineering.
 In 2006 the South Korean Ministry of Science and Technology selected the KIST and Purdue team project from 20 international research proposals submitted to examine how to learn more about the molecular makeup of diseases.
 The $4.5 million research initiative, which spans nine years, now involves several KIST and Purdue researchers working to advance the role that nanoparticles can play in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer or chronic diseases like diabetes and multiple sclerosis.
 The research also focuses on next-generation tools that would aid the medical community in what's known as theragnosis - combining simultaneous diagnostics and therapeutics.
 The Korean Ministry of Science and Technology provides central planning, coordination and evaluation of all science and technology activities in South Korea.
 The agency also formulates national policies in the areas of technology, space and nuclear energy. Source: James Leary, 765-494-7280, 
jfleary@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/sypris-expands-indiana-based-research-center.html
<Content> Sypris expands Indiana-based research center
 John Walsh, president of Sypris Electronics LLC, speaks during the dedication of the company's cybersecurity research center in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette.
 Sitting behind Walsh are, from left, Joel Rasmus, director of strategic relations for Purdue's Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security; and Joseph Hornett, senior vice president, treasurer and COO of the Purdue Research Foundation.
 (Purdue Research Foundation photo) Download Photo TAMPA, Fla. And WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -Sypris Electronics LLC, a subsidiary of Sypris Solutions Inc.
, announced Thursday (Oct. 10) the opening of its newly expanded Sypris Research Center (SRC). Sypris Electronics dedicated the office in its new location in the Purdue Research Park in West Lafayette, Ind.
 The newly expanded office will continue to focus on advancements in cybersecurity as well as other innovative research in the areas of network protection and critical infrastructure for government and commercial entities through its partnerships with Purdue University's Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security (CERIAS), government, and industry.
 "Sypris' expansion near Purdue, one of our premier university partners, is a solid testament to our commitment to advancing research in the areas of security and information assurance, not just for our government and commercial allies, but for the benefit of our worldwide partners as well," said John Walsh, president of Sypris Electronics.
 "I am proud to be a part of the grand opening event and I would like to thank our Indiana-based partners who helped make our expansion a seamless transition.
" Joseph Hornett, senior vice president, treasurer and COO of the Purdue Research Foundation, spoke at the dedication. "Purdue University and Sypris Electronics have a long history of research collaborations and the dedication of Sypris' offices in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette is another step in further developing this positive relationship," Hornett said.
 "It also is a good example of how Greater Lafayette can attract high-tech and defense companies to this area." Joel Rasmus, director of strategic relations for CERIAS, said that the expansion will provide additional opportunities for research collaborations.
 "Sypris has a strong reputation of doing innovative information assurance and security work, and this newly opened research and development facility has already begun to open new avenues for joint research collaboration and timely tech transfer from academia to industry," Rasmus said.
 "It is also affording many of our students the opportunity to work for an innovative industry leader." Sypris Electronics is a world-class, integrated systems solutions provider.
 Our ruggedized electronic products, advanced engineering services and complete electronic manufacturing capabilities are aligned to provide our customers the best people, practices and technologies to continually exceed expectations.
 We consistently promote an agile, innovative culture by strategically partnering with leading-edge technology companies, agencies and universities.
 With over 40 years of experience, Sypris Electronics is proud to develop, manufacture and integrate leading technologies into mission critical electronics systems that secure America's interest.
 Visit www.sypriselectronics.com for additional information. Joel Rasmus, (765) 494-7806, jrasmus@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/team-building-mixers-to-be-held-april-9-and-16-for-new-purdue-venture-creation-class.html
<Content> Team-building mixers to be held April 9 and 16 for new Purdue venture creation class
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue graduate and undergraduate students in all academic disciplines are invited to two informal events to learn about a new venture startup class being held in the fall 2013 semester and form teams to develop ideas into companies.
 Team formation mixers are scheduled for 6 p.m. Tuesday (April 9) and April 16 in the third-floor common areas of Rawls Hall, 100 S.
 Grant St. Attendees will learn about Lean LaunchPad, an entrepreneur-led class offered by the colleges of Engineering and Technology, Krannert School of Management and Department of Industrial Design.
 Students who complete Lean LaunchPad may earn a credit through the class currently co-listed as MGMT 590 and TECH 499. Matt McKillip, executive director of Purdue Tech Ventures, said a wide variety of students and faculty attended an April 2 informational session about Lean LaunchPad.
 "About 50 undergraduate and graduate students attended, along with several Purdue faculty members," he said. "There was a blend of academic disciplines including technology, science, liberal arts, management and engineering.
 These students should be able to field strong interdisciplinary teams during the mixers." Lean LaunchPad class sessions will be Tuesdays from 6-9 p.m.
 in Rawls Hall, Room 1057, during the fall 2013 semester. It is open to graduate and undergraduate students from all Purdue colleges and departments who have an interest in starting a business, but enrollment is limited.
 Each team will be led by an experienced mentor who has relevant knowledge in launching and building a startup. A video with more information about Lean LaunchPad is available at 
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Crxa2VKpIvo&feature=youtu.be</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/temporal-cloaking-could-bring-more-secure-optical-communications.html
<Content> 'Temporal cloaking' could bring more secure optical communications
 This diagram depicts the basic operation of a "temporal cloak" for optical communications that represents a potential tool to thwart would-be eavesdroppers and improve security for telecommunications.
 The signal is modified to have zero intensity when the data are "on," cloaking the information. Then the cloak converts the pulses back to a flat signal, hiding the fact that any data were transmitted.
 (Joseph Lukens, Purdue University) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Researchers have demonstrated a method for "temporal cloaking" of optical communications, representing a potential tool to thwart would-be eavesdroppers and improve security for telecommunications.
 "More work has to be done before this approach finds practical application, but it does use technology that could integrate smoothly into the existing telecommunications infrastructure," said Purdue University graduate student Joseph Lukens, working with 
Andrew Weiner, the Scifres Family Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Other researchers in 2012 invented temporal cloaking, but it cloaked only a tiny fraction - about a 10,000th of a percent - of the time available for sending data in optical communications.
 Now the Purdue researchers have increased that to about 46 percent, potentially making the concept practical for commercial applications.
 While the previous research in temporal cloaking required the use of a complex, ultrafast-pulsing "femtosecond" laser, the Purdue researchers achieved the feat using off-the-shelf equipment commonly found in commercial optical communications.
 Findings are detailed in a research paper appearing in the advance online publication of the journal Nature at 1 p.m. Eastern time Wednesday (June 5).
 The paper was authored by Lukens, senior research scientist Daniel E. Leaird and Weiner. The technique works by manipulating the phase, or timing, of light pulses.
 The propagation of light can be likened to waves in the ocean. If one wave is going up and interacts with another wave that's going down, they cancel each other and the light has zero intensity.
 The phase determines the level of interference between these waves. "By letting them interfere with each other you are able to make them add up to a one or a zero," Lukens said.
 "The zero is a hole where there is nothing." Controlling phase allows the transmission of signals in ones and zeros to send data over optical fibers.
 A critical piece of hardware is a component called a phase modulator, which is commonly found in optical communications to modify signals.
 In temporal cloaking, two phase modulators are used to first create the holes and two more to cover them up, making it look as though nothing was done to the signal.
 "It's a potentially higher level of security because it doesn't even look like you are communicating," Lukens said. "Eavesdroppers won't realize the signal is cloaked because it looks like no signal is being sent.
" "It might be used to prevent communication between people, to corrupt their communication links without them knowing," he said.
 "And you can turn it on and off, so if they suspected something strange was going on you could return it to normal communication.
" The technique could be improved to increase its operational bandwidth and the percentage of cloaking beyond 46 percent, he said.
 The technology is reminiscent of recent advances in cloaking using new "metamaterials," assemblies that contain features, patterns or elements such as tiny antennas or alternating layers of oxides that enable an unprecedented control of light and that could make possible a cloak of invisibility.
 The temporal cloaking, however, does not require metamaterials, just commercially available phase modulators and optical fibers.
 The effect is called temporal cloaking because it hides data being transmitted over time, as opposed to "spatial" cloaking to hide physical objects.
 The project was supported in part by the National Science Foundation and the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School under the National Security Science and Engineering Faculty Fellowship program.
 Financial support also came from the U.S. Department of Defense through a National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate Fellowship.
 Note to Journalists: An electronic copy of the research paper is available by contacting Rebecca Walton (Nature, London)&#8232; +44 20 7843 4502, 
r.walton@nature.com, or in North America: Neda Afsarmanesh (Nature, New York)&#8232; +1 212 726 9231, n.afsarmanesh@us.nature.com
 Through advances in metamaterials - artificially engineered media with exotic properties, including negative refractive index - the once fanciful invisibility cloak has now assumed a prominent place in scientific research.
 By extending these concepts to the temporal domain, investigators have recently described a cloak which hides events in time by creating a temporal gap in a probe beam that is subsequently closed up; any interaction which takes place during this hole in time is not detected.
 However, these results are limited to isolated events that fill a tiny portion of the temporal period, giving a fractional cloaking window of only about 10
-4 percent at a repetition rate of 41 kilohertz - which is much too low for applications such as optical communications. Here, we demonstrate another technique for temporal cloaking, which operates at telecommunication data rates and, by exploiting temporal self-imaging through the Talbot effect, hides optical data from a receiver.
 We succeed in cloaking 46 percent of the entire time axis and conceal pseudorandom digital data at a rate of 12.7 gigabits per second.
 This potential to cloak real-world messages introduces temporal cloaking into the sphere of practical application, with immediate ramifications in secure communications.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/testing-method-promising-for-spinal-cord-injuries,-multiple-sclerosis.html
<Content> Testing method promising for spinal cord injuries, multiple sclerosis
 Purdue researcher Riyi Shi is leading work to study the role of a toxin thought to worsen the severity of spinal cord injuries and other nervous system trauma and diseases.
 The researchers have now adapted a non-invasive medical test to measure the toxin in urine samples, offering a potential tool to reduce symptoms.
 (Purdue University photo/Michel Schweinsberg) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A medical test previously developed to measure a toxin found in tobacco smokers has been adapted to measure the same toxin in people suffering from spinal cord injuries and multiple sclerosis, offering a potential tool to reduce symptoms.
 The toxin, called acrolein, is produced in the body after nerve cells are injured, triggering a cascade of biochemical events thought to worsen the injury's severity.
 Acrolein (pronounced a-KRO-le-an) also may play an important role in multiple sclerosis and other conditions. Because drugs already exist to reduce the concentration of acrolein in the body, being able to detect and measure it non-invasively represents a potential treatment advance, said 
Riyi Shi (pronounced Ree Shee), a professor of neuroscience and biomedical engineering in Purdue University's Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Center for Paralysis Research and Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering. "If the acrolein level is high it needs to be reduced, and we already have effective acrolein removers to do so," Shi said.
 "Reducing or removing acrolein may lessen the severity of symptoms in people who have nerve damage, but there has not been a practical way to monitor acrolein levels in nervous system trauma and diseases.
" The toxin is present in tobacco smoke and air pollutants. A method had been developed previously to detect and measure acrolein in the urine of smokers, but it has not been used in people suffering from conditions in which the body produces acrolein internally.
 "Based on this method, it was revealed that acrolein is significantly elevated in smokers and decreases following the cessation of cigarette smoke," Shi said.
 "However, such a method has not been widely used for conditions in which acrolein is elevated due to central nervous system damage or disease.
" "We wanted to see if higher levels of acrolein corresponds to greater severity of spinal cord injury, and the answer is yes," said Shi, who is working with Bruce Cooper, director of the Metabolite Profiling Facility in the Bindley Bioscience Center of Purdue's Discovery Park.
 "This means reducing acrolein may help to control symptoms." New findings are detailed in a research paper that recently appeared online in the Journal of Neurotrauma.
 The paper, which also will appear in an upcoming print edition of the journal, was authored by doctoral students Lingxing Zheng, Jonghyuck Park, Michael Walls and Melissa Tully; Amber Jannasch, laboratory manager of the Metabolite Profiling Facility; and Cooper and Shi.
 The method does not detect acrolein directly but determines the presence of a byproduct, or metabolite, of acrolein in the urine.
 The metabolite is a chemical compound called N-acetyl-S-3-Hydroxypropylcysteine, or 3-HPMA. "Acrolein is very volatile, so it doesn't remain stable long enough to monitor, but one molecule of acrolein will make one molecule of 3-HPMA, which is very stable in urine," Shi said.
 Laboratory rats were injected with different doses of acrolein, and findings showed that the detection technique is able to accurately measure these differences in acrolein concentration in the urine.
 The technique might one day be performed routinely in a doctor's office. "The non-invasive nature of measuring 3-HPMA concentrations in urine allows for long-term monitoring of acrolein in the same animal and ultimately in human clinical studies," Shi said.
 Two drugs have been shown to be effective in reducing acrolein levels in the body: hydralazine and phenelzine, which have been approved by the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration for hypertension and depression, respectively. The testing method could be used in conjunction with other measures to test patients for the progress of spinal cord disease.
 "Nervous system trauma and diseases are like many other illnesses: A disease-associated marker can be critical for making a diagnosis, a therapeutic selection and a treatment evaluation," Shi said.
 "Therefore, determination of acrolein levels gives you more assurance that you have an intense biochemical imbalance and biochemical damage and that you should use an acrolein scavenger as a treatment.
 We used different levels of hydralazine to see if it causes a dose-dependent reduction of 3-HPMA and found that, in fact, it did.
 This shows that this method is capable of monitoring the decrease of acrolein through treatment with acrolein-removing medications.
" Acrolein damages mitochondria, which provide energy for cells, and in multiple sclerosis compromises the myelin sheath surrounding a nerve cell's axon, preventing nerves from properly conducting electrical impulses.
 The toxin has a possible role in other diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, cancer and atherosclerosis. "Due to widespread involvement of acrolein in the body, the benefits of this study have the potential to significantly enhance human health," Shi said.
 "For example, there is evidence that heightened levels of acrolein could diminish an individual's ability to recover fully from stroke and cancer.
" In laboratory animals, hydralazine has been shown to delay onset of multiple sclerosis for several days, which could mean several years in humans.
 Tests with animals also suggests the drug could help to reduce the most severe symptoms once the disease has progressed. Acrolein has been found to be elevated by about 60 percent in the spinal cord tissues of mice with a disease similar to multiple sclerosis.
 The toxin causes harm by reacting with the proteins and lipids that make up cells, including neurons. The research is funded by the National Institutes of Health.
 Previous work was supported with funding from the state of Indiana. Lingxing Zheng1,2, Jonghyuck Park1,2, Michael Walls1, Melissa Tully
2, Amber Jannasch3, Bruce Cooper3, and Riyi Shi1,2 Acrolein has been suggested to be involved in a variety of pathological conditions.
 The monitoring of acrolein is of significant importance in delineating the pathogenesis of various diseases. Aimed at overcoming the reactivity and volatility of acrolein, we describe a specific and stable metabolite of acrolein in urine, N-acetyl-S-3- hydroxypropylcysteine (3-HPMA), as a potential surrogate marker for acrolein quantification.
 Using the LC/MS/MS method, we demonstrated that 3-HPMA was significantly elevated in a dose-dependent manner when acrolein was injected into rats IP or directly into the spinal cord, but not when acrolein scavengers were co-incubated with acrolein solution.
 A non-linear mathematic relationship is established between acrolein injected directly into the spinal cord and a correlated dose dependent increase of 3-HPMA, suggesting the increase of 3-HPMA becomes less apparent as the level of injected acrolein increases.
 The elevation of 3-HPMA was further detected in the rat spinal cord injury, a pathological condition known to be associated with elevated endogenous acrolein.
 This finding was further validated by concomitant confirmation of increased acrolein-lysine adducts using established dot immunoblotting techniques.
 The non-invasive nature of measuring 3-HPMA concentrations in urine allows for long-term monitoring of acrolein in the same animal and ultimately in human clinical studies.
 Due to widespread involvement of acrolein in human health, the benefits of this study have the potential to significantly enhance human health.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/textbooks-cost-too-much-startup-offers-alternative.html
<Content> Textbooks cost too much? Startup offers alternative
 An e-book-mobile application hybrid that was designed as a replacement for textbooks by Purdue University has been licensed to a new startup company, Skyepack.
 Instructors and schools can develop "packs" of content, which can be placed in a Skyepack marketplace to be used by students or other instructors.
 (Purdue University image) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – A new digital tool offers an alternative to both textbooks and expensive e-readers and allows anyone to create classroom teaching materials that students can view on computers or smartphones.
 The tool, Skyepack, just launched as a "freemium" product. Users can create and distribute their initial digital packs - which are a hybrid between an e-book and a mobile application - at no cost.
 Additional publishing space can be added for a fee. The Skyepack technology was licensed by Purdue University through an agreement with the Purdue Research Foundation.
 Purdue has been using its version of the technology, called Jetpack, since 2011. The company is operating out of the Purdue Research Park.
 Gerry McCartney, Purdue University's CIO, vice president for information technology and Olga Oesterle England Professor of Technology, says Jetpack and the commercial version, Skyepack, are a new way of delivering educational materials.
 "E-books today remind me of how early automobiles were called 'horseless carriages' and looked as if they worked best if you harnessed a couple of horses to the front," McCartney says.
 "This publishing platform is a next step, because it allows you to incorporate any type of media and view it on almost any device.
" Brady Kalb, chief executive officer of Skyepack, says the technology is not just for teachers in classrooms. "Our market includes instructors and teachers, but also other subject-matter experts who are looking to share their knowledge.
 It can be used by anyone to package content they have and distribute it in a compact matter," Kalb says. "So Skyepack can not only be used by K-12 educators and university faculty, but also for corporate training, professional continuing educational training, and similar uses.
" Texas A&M University is using Skyepack to deliver an online course called "Healthy Lifestyles. Bruce Hanik, associate director of the university's Office of Digital Learning Technologies, says Skyepack allows students to view the content on their mobile devices.
 "We use Moodle to deliver the course, but all of our lectures use Adobe Flash, which doesn't play on iPads or iPhones," Hanick says.
 "This gives students another way to access the material." Both Skyepack and the Purdue technology it is built on allow authors to combine video, specialized calculators, interactive media, Google maps, presentation slides, interactive quizzes and self-assessment tests with standard e-book text into lecture-specific "packs.
" Instructors can assemble multiple packs to build the equivalent of a course textbook. The packs can be run on most smartphones and tablet devices, smartphones, iPhones, and iPads,
 and because the content is stored on the users' devices, the packs run natively and don't have delays or skips caused by slow downloads.
 Users can also view the material online using desktop computers. Jetpack is one of seven "classroom app" mobile technologies developed at Purdue to assist instructors and benefit students.
 Although he's pleased with the arrangement to license the technology, McCartney says that isn't the reason the university develops new apps.
 "These mobile apps and software tools are built because they improve student success at Purdue," he says. "We want to share our success, but we're not in the business of selling educational technologies.
 By licensing our technologies to companies such as Skyepack we can make these technologies available to companies and institutions that have a need for them.
" Jetpack was developed by professional staff in Information Technology at Purdue (ITaP). Dan Hasler, president and chief entrepreneurial officer of the Purdue Research Foundation, says that this is an example of the innovation that continues to happen throughout Purdue's domain.
 "We have a vibrant environment at Purdue that is encouraging life-changing ideas and exploring their commercial potential," Hasler says.
 "Skyepack is just the latest example of an idea that was developed by staff members and is now the basis for a new company and new employment in the Research Park.
" Purdue University has nearly 500 technologies available for licensing through the Office of Technology Commercialization. For more information, visit 
http://otc-prf.org or call 765-588-3341. Skyepack is a mobile educational content authoring and distribution platform that enables instructors and subject matter experts to easily create media-rich learning materials that are published to mobile devices and the Web.
 Skyepack enables a "learn-as-you-go" study methodology by not requiring a Wi-Fi or LTE connection to view the material and provides instructors with valuable feedback about student usage and impact.
 Purdue University is a public, doctoral-granting research university founded in 1869. The university's statewide system includes its main campus in West Lafayette, Ind.
, four regional campuses, and numerous teaching and research sites throughout Indiana. Purdue has a systemwide enrollment of more than 69,000 students from 50 states and 130 countries.
 Purdue's main campus offers more than 200 majors for undergraduates and more than 70 master's and doctoral programs. The university also has 18 intercollegiate sports teams and more than 850 student organizations.
 Purdue is led by Mitchell E. Daniels, who serves as the university's 12th president. For more information, please visit http://www.purdue.edu
 The Purdue Research Foundation is a private, nonprofit foundation created to advance the mission of Purdue University. The foundation accepts gifts; administers trusts; funds research, scholarships and grants; acquires property; and negotiates research contracts on behalf of Purdue.
 In the 1990s, the foundation was charged with helping the university in the realm of economic development. The Purdue Research Foundation oversees the Purdue Research Park, which is the largest university-affiliated business incubator in the country.
 For more information, please visit http://www.prf.org/</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/the-pain-lingers-for-white-teen-girls-who-are-told-they-are-too-fat.html
<Content> The pain lingers for white teen girls who are told they are too fat
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — White teenage girls who are told by their parents or friends that they are too fat have more depressive symptoms when they are young adults, according to new research from Purdue University.
 "While it's great to see intervention efforts helping young people with physical activity and diet, there is a mental health component related to the stigma of obesity that needs to be addressed," said Sarah A.
 Mustillo, an associate professor of sociology who studies obesity in childhood and adolescence. "If an obese girl was called fat at age 11 or 12, she had more depressive symptoms in her late teens and early 20s compared to obese teens who were not called fat.
" "The effects were small, but given the increased risk of depression among women, identifying the impact of factors that can be modified is valuable," Mustillo said.
 "This is a reminder that stigma-laden labels are powerful and can influence individual well-being for the long-term." The study, which is published in 
Social Psychology Quarterly, followed females from as young as ages 9 and 10 for 10 years starting in 1987. The physical and mental health of 2,379 girls was monitored annually as part of the National Growth and Health Study.
 Data was collected during physical exams, nutrition and physical assessments, and questionnaires. In this sample, 8 percent of the white girls and 18 percent of the black girls were obese at baseline.
 Although the black girls in this study reported more fat labeling than the white girls they did not have the same long-term effects as the white teenagers.
 "This study doesn't address the causes of the difference, but other research suggests that the black community is more accepting of a wider range of body types and sizes and that black teenage girls may have better coping skills," Mustillo said.
 The researchers also don't know if the label of "too fat" was made in a teasing way or meant as a general comment. "White children who were labeled fat at the younger ages of 9 and 10 experienced increased distress at the time, but the effects were short-term," Mustillo said.
 "However, if they were called fat as a teenager then they were at risk of depressive symptoms as a young adult. Identity is more stable in late childhood, such as at ages 9 and 10, but those tumultuous early adolescence years are vulnerable to negative perceptions such as the shame, self-loathing and rejection often associated with obesity.
 This study suggests those feelings can stick with them." Mustillo's previous research found that even if obese young women were able to return to the normal weight range in their teen years, the negative self-perception was still there.
 "Again, helping young people with obesity needs to go beyond the physical aspect," Mustillo said. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, approximately 17 percent, or 12.5 million, children ages 2-19 are obese.
 The data set used for this study represents a time when obesity was not as prevalent. "Now we're looking at if and how today's higher prevalence of obesity affects the level of stigma and acceptance," Mustillo said.
 "Another development is the American Medical Association's identifying obesity as a disease. In doing so, will this reduce the stigma associated with obesity?
" This article also was co-authored by Kristen Budd, a Purdue alumna and now assistant professor at Indiana University South Bend, and Kimber Hendrix, a Purdue graduate student in sociology.
 The data set is from the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. Note to Journalists: Journalists interested in a copy of the journal article can contact Amy Patterson Neubert, Purdue News Service, 765-494-9723, 
apatterson@purdue.edu Obesity, Labeling, and Psychological Distress in Late-Childhood and Adolescent Black and White Girls: The Distal Effects of Stigma
 The stigma of childhood obesity has the potential to affect psychological development during the early life course, but few studies examine whether experiencing stigma in childhood and adolescence has lasting ramifications for mental health during the transition to adulthood.
 Integrating modified labeling theory with a life course perspective, this study examined how obesity at different ages affects psychological distress in late adolescence using longitudinal data on black and white girls.
 We tested whether parent or friend labeling mediates this relationship and whether distal effects on psychological distress are further mediated through proximal distress using data from the National Growth and Health Study (n = 2,379).
 Findings showed significant proximal and distal effects of obesity on psychological distress through both parent and friend labeling among white girls.
 Distal effects on psychological distress were also mediated by proximal psychological distress. Among black girls, there were no distal effects, suggesting weight-based stigma is more consequential for white girls compared to black girls.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/theory-of-higgs-field-earns-nobel-prize,-purdue-physicists-part-of-experiment-that-proved-it.html
<Content> Theory of Higgs field earns Nobel Prize, Purdue physicists part of experiment that proved it
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The 2013 Nobel Prize in physics on Tuesday (Oct. 8) was awarded to François Englert and Peter Higgs for their work in developing the theory of the Higgs field, and Purdue University researchers were part of the international experiment that proved its existence.
 Purdue's particle physics group has been among the team of international scientists working on experiments at the European Organization for Nuclear Research, or CERN, laboratory and the hunt for the Higgs boson for more than two decades.
 In July of 2012, their work culminated in an historical moment when representatives of the international collaboration announced the discovery of the Higgs particle, which proves the existence of the Higgs field.
 "The prediction of the Higgs field was fundamental and ahead of its time as it has taken 50 years to prove it," said David Miller, a professor of physics at Purdue who was part of the Compact Muon Solenoid, or CMS, experiment at CERN.
 "Purdue faculty, staff and students who had a hand in the discovery of the Higgs particle are celebrating this Nobel Prize and the brilliance of Peter Higgs and Francois Englert.
" David Miller, a Purdue physics professor, stands next to the forward silicon pixel detector of the Compact Muon Solenoid detector.
 Miller and Purdue's particle physics group were involved in designing and building parts of the detector and analyzing and reviewing data from the experiment.
 (Photo courtesy of David Miller) Download Photo The Higgs field provides the mechanism for how particles get different masses and was one of the last pieces of the Standard Model of particle physics to be proven experimentally, he said.
 In addition to Miller, the Purdue particle physics group involved in the CMS experiment includes physics professors Virgil Barnes, Daniela Bortoletto, Laszlo Gutay, Matthew Jones, Norbert Neumeister, Ian Shipsey and professor emeritus Arthur Garfinkel.
 Many Purdue graduate and undergraduate students and postdoctoral researchers also have been involved in the experiment. "Purdue particle physicists have been involved with the CMS experiment from concept to building of the detectors to analysis all the way through to the last moments of review before the announcement of the discovery," said Neumeister, who was involved in the internal reviewing process of the analyses that searched for the Higgs boson.
 "The particle had been predicted for some time and it is simply amazing that it finally materialized, confirming the theory of the Higgs field and earning its creators the Nobel Prize.
" The discovery of the Higgs boson has deep implications for how matter in the universe behaves, Jones said. "The discovery of the Higgs particle was far more than just adding another particle to our collection," he said.
 "For other particles to have to couple with the Higgs to gain mass means the Higgs field must be permeating all space at all times and is fundamental to space itself.
" The discovery of the Higgs particle showed the Higgs field was real and not just a mathematical construct, he said. "Particles are like ripples on a lake," he said.
 "We throw a rock, ripples form and we know that the lake exists. The ripples are short lived, but we know the lake remains even when it is still.
 Through the Large Hadron Collider we were able to throw a rock big enough to create a ripple - the Higgs particle - that tells us the lake - the Higgs field - is out there.
" At CERN the Large Hadron Collider, or LHC, crashes protons together at nearly the speed of light to create tiny subatomic particles, some of which had never before been seen.
 The CMS is one of three detectors at the LHC capturing traces of these collisions and was used in the experiments that led to the Higgs discovery.
 Purdue scientists and students contributed to the design and construction of several key parts of the CMS detector, the software used to operate it and analyze the collisions, and have contributed to a variety of key data measurements.
 Purdue physics professor Norbert Neumeister stands next to the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. Neumeister and Purdue's particle physics group are part of the experiment that discovered the Higgs boson and confirmed the theory of the Higgs field.
 The 2013 Nobel Prize in physics was awarded to François Englert and Peter Higgs for the development of this theory. (Photo courtesy of Norbert Neumeister) 
Download Photo Barnes and Gutay contributed key design features to two major components of the detector: the Hadron calorimeters, which detect showers of particles coming from high energy quarks; and the Muon detectors, which detect heavy relatives of the electron, respectively.
 Adjunct professors Bortoletto and Shipsey led the camera design and assembly teams. Shipsey is the current chair of the CMS Collaboration Board and Bortoletto is the upgrade coordinator of the U.S.
 CMS experiment. Both are now professors of physics at Oxford University and were distinguished professors at Purdue at the time of the discovery.
 Bortoletto was involved in several of the analyses searching for the Higgs boson, and Neumeister and Shipsey were involved in the internal reviewing process.
 Neumeister, in collaboration with Purdue’s information technology group, also contributes to the global distributed computing system that analyzed data from the experiments.
 The Purdue CMS "Tier-2" data storage and processing center is the largest of its kind among U.S. universities. "Although the Higgs particle was discovered, many questions remain," Neumeister said.
 "The Large Hadron Collider has only run at half of the energy of which it is capable and I look forward to what we will find when it starts up again in 2015.
 Perhaps next we will find something that has not been predicted." Nearly 2,000 physicists from U.S. institutions, including 89 universities and seven U.S.
 Department of Energy laboratories, participate in the ATLAS and CMS experiments that discovered the Higgs boson. The discovery was the result of decades of effort by physicists and engineers around the world, at the LHC and also at the Tevatron accelerator located at Fermilab and the Large Electron Positron accelerator, which once inhabited the tunnel where the LHC resides.
 Note to Journalists: Video of Purdue physics professors Matthew Jones and Virgil Barnes discussing the discovery of the Higgs particle and the CMS experiment is available at 
ftp://news69.uns.purdue.edu/Public/HiggsBoson/</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/this-purdue-team-is-super---at-computing.html
<Content> This Purdue team is super - at computing
 The Purdue Cluster Challenge team poses with the university's new Carter Cluster supercomputer, which ranks as one of the world's most powerful supercomputers for academic research.
 Kneeling from left are Cody Breedlove, Andrew Huff, Ethan Madden and Andy Howard. Standing from left are Patrick Finnegan, Kurt Kroeger, Nick Molo, Tyler Reid, Alex Younts and Stephen Harrell.
 (Purdue University photo/John Underwood)Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Whether it's developing new cancer treatments or tracking down the particles that make up the universe, not to mention powering Amazon or iTunes, Nick Molo knows high-performance computing is now an essential component.
 So the Purdue junior in computer engineering figures experience on a team of students building and running their own supercomputer in an international competition can't help but enhance his prospects, even if it means keeping long hours this semester and a few sleepless nights.
 Molo is part of the six-member Purdue team competing in the 2012 Cluster Challenge, the student competition at SC12, the world's largest supercomputing conference.
 The conference is Nov. 10-16 in Salt Lake City. The Purdue team, one of just eight selected, will be competing against teams from China and around the United States.
 Purdue's entry is the only one from the Big Ten and the Midwest. "My short-term goal is to get a good job after graduation that would potentially pay for me to go back to school to further my education," says Molo, from Joilet, Ill.
 "The Cluster Challenge already has given me a leg up on the competition. It gives me a great talking point on my resume while also being a great learning experience.
" The other team members are Cody Breedlove, a senior in computer science from Royal Center, Ind.; Andrew Huff, a junior in computer science from Cary, N.C.; Kurt Kroeger, a sophomore in computer science from Nashville, Tenn.; Ethan Madden, a junior in computer science from Newburgh, Ind.; and Tyler Reid, a senior in computer science from Zionsville, Ind.
 Stephen Harrell and Andy Howard, staff members for Information Technology at Purdue (ITaP), Purdue's central information technology organization, are advising the team.
 ITaP and HP are team sponsors. SC12 also is a showcase for Purdue-developed technologies to advance groundbreaking research in science, engineering and other fields.
 That includes the new open source version of HUBzero, a ready-made software platform for research and education that makes it possible to access powerful computational tools right from a Web browser.
 More than 40 virtual communities use HUBzero already in fields ranging from nanotechnology and health care to earthquake engineering and the bonds between human and companion animals.
 Other Purdue technologies being showcased at SC12 range from a tool for projecting the impact of land use changes like urban growth on water supplies to a Web-based version of BLAST, software widely used in studying DNA and other biological building blocks.
 With 128 processors, about 30 to 60 times more than a typical personal computer, the student supercomputer is a mini version of Purdue's new Carter cluster supercomputer.
 Carter, with more than 10,000 processors, is among the top 100 most powerful academic supercomputers in the world. Researchers in aeronautics and astronautics; earth, atmospheric and planetary sciences; economics; genomics; and more use Carter.
 Likewise, the Cluster Challenge teams - limited to undergraduates - must run an assigned selection of real research software to crunch large sets of sample data as quickly and efficiently as possible.
 The 2012 applications simulate atoms, model the global climate, probe physics at the very small level and predict the spread of contaminants underground.
 Members of Purdue's team help operate Carter as student workers for ITaP. The Cluster Challenge is an opportunity to learn more about the software faculty researchers run on the supercomputer and to experience supercomputing from a user's perspective.
 "I've always wondered what types of programs researchers use and what their function is," Kroeger says. "The Cluster Challenge has allowed me to work on many different applications.
" "I think educationally I'd really like them to whet their appetites for computational science," he says. "To me it's a pretty amazing thing when you think about it, modeling very tiny things or very large things or very hot things.
 I'd like them to share some of that excitement and maybe consider it as a career." During the competition, the students share the load monitoring and adjusting their supercomputer around the clock as they work to process as much data as possible over 48 hours.
 The prospect of losing a little sleep doesn't faze Reid, who also was on Purdue's 2011 team. "I wanted to participate in the Cluster Challenge again because it was an awesome experience," Reid says.
 "I really enjoyed meeting the students on the other teams and other people interested in high-performance computing, and I hope to get a job in the high-performance computing industry, or in an industry where I can continue to work on something I'm passionate about.
" Contact: Greg Kline, science and technology writer, Information Technology at Purdue (ITaP), 765-494-8167 (office), 765-426-8545 (mobile), 
gkline@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q3/time-to-complete-approved-tobacco-cessation-program-to-avoid-2014-additional-medical-premium.html
<Content> Time to complete approved tobacco cessation program to avoid 2014 additional medical premium
 The $500 per person tobacco-user additional premium will continue for 2014 Purdue medical plans. The additional premium applies to employees and covered spouses/same-sex domestic partners.
 If both people in the couple use tobacco and are covered by the plan, the additional premium will be $1,000. Employees and spouses/SSDPs who have used tobacco during the past 12 months may qualify for a waiver of the additional premium by completing an approved tobacco cessation program.
 Approved programs completed Sept. 1-Nov. 15 qualify for a waiver of the 2014 additional premium. A variety of approved cessation programs is available.
 To complete a listed program in time for a January 2014 waiver, participants must enroll by the specified date. * Health coaching through the Center for Healthy Living (Living Tobacco Free): Enroll by Aug.
 19. * Health coaching by phone through Center for Healthy Living, for employees at Calumet, Fort Wayne and North Central campuses: Enroll by Sept.
 30. Employees who do not enroll in time to earn a January waiver may complete an approved program later in the year for a partial waiver of the additional premium.
 For more information, including how to get started, go to www.purdue.edu/hr/Benefits/tobaccoCessation.html. Employees will certify their tobacco-user status and that of their covered spouses/SSDPs during the online benefits open enrollment process this fall.
 Those covered by a Purdue medical plan who do not certify their status will be considered a tobacco user and will be charged the $500 additional premium in 2014.
 To qualify as a non-tobacco user and avoid the additional premium, a person must have been a non-tobacco user for at least 12 months immediately prior to completing the 2014 benefits enrollment or must have completed an approved tobacco cessation program as outlined above.
 Open enrollment will take place Oct. 28-Nov. 15.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/tornado,-severe-weather-forecasting-expert-available.html
<Content> Tornado, severe weather forecasting expert available
 Michael Baldwin, Purdue University associate professor of earth, atmospheric and planetary sciences; severe weather forecasting expert
 Baldwin can discuss tornadoes, severe weather forecasting and warnings. He also can discuss how to prepare for severe weather and the different sources of information available during weather events.
 Baldwin is a co-leader of the National Science Foundation-funded Mesocscale Predictability Experiment, or MPEX, a field project to improve severe weather predictions.
 The project is taking atmospheric measurements before and after storms across the Great Plains through June 15. Baldwin's research focuses on improving computer programs that predict the weather and ways to evaluate the quality of forecasts.
 Baldwin lived in Norman, Okla., a suburb of Oklahoma City, when the area was hit by tornadoes, including an EF5, on May 3, 1999.
 Norman neighbors Moore, Okla. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/traffic-changes-announced-for-wang-hall-construction-site.html
<Content> Traffic changes announced for Wang Hall construction site
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – New, temporary pedestrian traffic restrictions will be installed beginning Monday (March 11) near 516 Northwestern Ave.
 as construction continues on Seng-Liang Wang Hall. The restrictions will be installed to provide safety for pedestrian and vehicle traffic.
 The sidewalk between Purdue University's Northwestern Avenue parking garage and McDonald's will be closed on the east side of U.S.
 231/Northwestern Avenue. A 42-inch tall continuous highway barricade will be installed in the median of Northwestern Avenue, from just south of Stadium Avenue to just north of the southbound left hand turn lane into the parking garage.
 During the week of March 11, the east northbound lane of U.S. 231/Northwestern Avenue will be closed from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. for installation of concrete curbs adjacent to the street.
 The lane will be reopened each evening while work is underway. The lane restrictions are scheduled to be complete by March 15. Directional signage will be placed throughout the area indicating the proper traffic flow and alerting drivers of the work ahead.
 Source: Robert Butcher, Shiel Sexton Co., Rbutcher@shielsexton.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/trask-innovation-fund-application-deadline-set-for-sept.-13.html
<Content> Trask Innovation Fund application deadline set for Sept. 13
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Applications for the Trask Innovation Fund are being accepted now through Friday, Sept. 13, to eligible Purdue University inventors who are prepared to move their innovation to the market.
 The applications must describe commercially relevant work that can be performed over a six-month period that furthers the development of a Purdue-owned technology.
 In this round of awards, selected projects from the Purdue College of Agriculture will have the opportunity to be awarded additional funding from Romney, Ind.
-based Ag Alumni Seed Improvement Association Inc. The awards are competitive and must assist faculty and staff at all Purdue campuses to further the commercial potential of Purdue discoveries that have been disclosed to the Purdue 
Office of Technology Commercialization. Information about applications is available at http://otc-prf.org/node/337 The Trask Innovation Fund Advisory Council manages two rounds of funding each year.
 The council is composed of 12 members with representatives from the local business community, Purdue Research Foundation, Purdue University Office of the Vice President for Research and Purdue faculty.
 The Trask Advisory Council will meet Nov. 8 to determine this round's award recipients. Awards will be announced in mid-December.
 Purdue University has innovations spanning from crop improvement, to alternative fuels, to biomedical devices, to new cancer treatments available for licensing through the Office of Technology Commercialization.
 For more information, call 765-588-3478, email otcip@prf.org or visit http://www.otc-prf.org The Purdue Research Foundation is a private, nonprofit foundation created to advance the mission of Purdue University.
 Established in 1930, the foundation accepts gifts; administers trusts; funds scholarships and grants; and acquires property on behalf of Purdue.
 The foundation oversees the Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization, which operates one of the most comprehensive technology transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 In the 1990s, the foundation was charged with helping the university in the realm of economic development. The foundation oversees the Purdue Research Park, which is the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The Purdue Office of Technology Commercialization operates one of the most comprehensive technology transfer programs among leading research universities in the United States.
 Services provided by this office support the economic development initiatives of Purdue University and benefit the university's academic activities.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/trees-of-the-midwest-now-offered-in-purdue-extension-app.html
<Content> Trees of the Midwest now offered in Purdue Extension app
 The mobile app version of Purdue Extension's Fifty Trees of the Midwest publication shows easy-to-understand information on screens like these.
 (Purdue Agricultural Communication graphic/Sharon Katz) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Students walking through woods in a classroom project no longer have to leaf through pages in a book to figure out what type of tree they're looking at.
 They now can have the resource of a Purdue Extension mobile app at their fingertips to easily identify the most common trees of the Midwest.
 The "Fifty Trees of the Midwest" app not only is ideal for students who need to identify trees for schoolwork and other projects; it also will be handy for science teachers, Master Gardeners, foresters, operators of nurseries and others.
 The mobile-device version of the publication of the same name is backed by the expertise of Purdue Extension forestry specialists.
 "This app is a good companion for tree enthusiasts and professionals, providing information which has been reviewed by Purdue Extension experts," said Lindsey Purcell, a Purdue Extension urban forestry specialist who was an adviser in the selection of information available in the app.
 "And it's easy to use, designed for both young people and adults, with search capabilities that help users find information they need quickly.
" More than 400 high-quality color photos show the leaf, bud, twig, flower, fruit, bark and form of more than 50 trees and include pop-up definitions.
 Users can enlarge the photos for a closer look. Among the app's features is the ability for users to identify a tree by taking their own photos of it and then compare them side-by-side to photos in the app.
 They then can answer a series of questions to narrow the possibilities of the type of tree until they identify it. The app offers five easy-to-navigate sections so that users can find information they need quickly:
 * Learn: Study the characteristics of broadleaf and evergreen trees and learn about different families and why some trees grow together.
 * Identify: Compare photos of tree characteristics and answer a series of questions to identify trees in your yard or in the woods.
 The app, for iPhone and iPad, costs $3.99 and is available at Purdue Extension's The Education Store at www.extension.purdue.edu/50trees
. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/trustees-approve-2013-14-residence-hall-rate-plans.html
<Content> Trustees approve 2013-14 residence hall rate plans
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University's Board of Trustees on Saturday (Dec. 15) approved a 1.9 percent average increase in room and board rates at the West Lafayette campus for the 2013-14 academic year.
 It marks the third straight year that average rates have risen 2 percent or less. The new rate structure at the West Lafayette campus follows the previous two academic years, in which room and board rates averaged increases of 2 percent in 2011-12 and 1.9 percent for 2012-13, said James Almond, senior vice president for business services and assistant treasurer.
 The average rates include the 12-meal plan, the most popular student choice. "These last three years reflect some of the lowest historical average increases, and our rate structure once again provides students with several options from which to choose while maintaining affordability," Almond said.
 "This structure makes it easier for students and families to determine what is best for them as far as choosing a place to live on campus.
" Depending on the type of campus housing students select, the price per academic year will range from $3,980 for a room with two beds and no meal plan in Hawkins Hall to $14,946 for room and board in First Street Towers.
 Students can choose from among five dining options. Purdue's on-campus residence program houses more than 11,700 students, and all campus housing is voluntary.
 The system is financially self-supporting, and no state funds or general student fees are used for construction, maintenance or operations.
 University Residences offers a comprehensive package that includes furnished rooms with utilities, telephone service, cable TV and high-speed Internet.
 Meals are available 18 hours a day, and a portion of students' dining dollars can be used in the Purdue Memorial Union and at various campus satellite food operations.
 University Residences hires professional staff members who live in residence halls to provide support to students and their communities.
 In addition, access to buildings is monitored and security policies are enforced to help ensure student safety. Trustees also approved room rates at Purdue Calumet and Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne.
 Rates for both four- and two-bedroom suites at Purdue Calumet will increase 3 percent. The Calumet campus has nearly 750 rooms that offer apartment-style housing accommodations.
 Board contracts are not provided on campus. Students at Fort Wayne will see no average increase for 2013-14 due to offsetting increases and decreases.
 Rates will range from a decrease of 3.2 percent to an increase of 3.2 percent, based on a room's configuration. Board contracts are not provided on campus.
 Student housing capacity is just over 1,200.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/trustees-approve-several-changes-at-purdue-calumet.html
<Content> Trustees approve several changes at Purdue Calumet
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University's Board of Trustees on Friday (July 19) approved several academic changes at Purdue University Calumet.
 The board approved changing the name and moving the Department of Hospitality and Tourism Management. Members also voted to merge the Department of Information Systems and the Department of Finance and Economics and to change the name of all academic units from schools to colleges.
 The name of the Department of Hospitality and Tourism Management will be changed to the White Lodging School of Hospitality and Tourism Management and move to the College of Business.
 Purdue Calumet Chancellor Thomas Keon said the department's faculty unanimously voted to approve the changes earlier this year. 
The new Department of Information Systems, Finance and Business Analytics will combine relevant disciplines into one department in the College of Business, Keon said.
 "The reorganization allows more opportunities for collaboration and program updates consistent with university goals and with industry needs," Keon said.
 "This is especially relevant as employers of our students are calling for database management and business analysis skills." Keon said changing the names of schools to colleges is to be consistent with other Purdue system campuses.
 The name changes include: * School of Engineering, Mathematics and Science to College of Engineering, Mathematics and Science Sources:
 Timothy Sands, executive vice president for academic affairs and provost, 765-494-9709, tsands@purdue.edu Thomas Keon, chancellor of Purdue University Calumet, 219-989-2204, 
tkeon@purduecal.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/trustees-committee-reviews-2014-medical-plans,-premiums.html
<Content> Trustees committee reviews 2014 medical plans, premiums
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The Purdue University Board of Trustees' Audit and Insurance Committee on Monday (July 15) reviewed the university's 2014 medical plan options and premiums, which are now slated to go before the full board for approval at its Friday (July 19) meeting.
 Recommendations brought to the committee by Purdue Human Resources call for replacing the university's current plans with three new options: two high-deductible plans that qualify for a tax-free health savings account (HSA) and one lower-deductible plan that does not include an HSA.
 Human Resources developed the medical plan recommendations in consultation with Purdue's Health Care Strategy Committee, a group of faculty and staff charged with bringing forward short-term and long-term solutions for rising health-care costs.
 "The plans for next year have been designed to provide high-quality, affordable medical insurance, while encouraging employees to be better health-care consumers," said Luis E.
 Lewin, vice president for human resources. "Being better consumers will help reduce or curb expenses to the medical plans, which is important to all of us.
 Purdue is self-insured, so we foot the bill for all of our own medical claims." Human Resources worked with Mercer, a human resource consulting firm, to develop its premium recommendations.
 The proposed premiums are based on projected 2014 claims and the need to meet the Board of Trustees' prescribed 80/20 premium split between the university and its faculty and staff.
 Under the proposed premiums, many employees who enroll in one of the high-deductible plans will see a decrease in premiums in 2014.
 All employees enrolling in the highest-deductible plan will have lower premiums next year. Individuals covering just themselves, regardless of earnings, will not pay a premium under the new Purdue Health Plan Plus HSA 2.
 Employees who cover a spouse/same-sex domestic partner or family and enroll in the lower-deductible choice without an HSA will see an increase in their premiums.
 Purdue will continue its two-tier medical premium arrangement, which offers lower premiums for employees earning less than $44,000 a year.
 "Purdue will continue to work with our faculty and staff to find ways to keep medical plan costs affordable," Lewin said. "We're having discussions with employee groups, providing tools to help us be better consumers, such as the Castlight health shopping service, and working to get the best pricing and best discounts for our plans.
" Source: Luis E. Lewin, 494-7395, luislewin@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/trustees-ratify-appointments,-approve-academic-program,-ok-degree-name-change.html
<Content> Trustees ratify appointments, approve academic program, OK degree name change
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The Purdue University Board of Trustees on Friday (May 10) ratified appointments of five named and distinguished professors at the West Lafayette campus and approved a new health studies program at Purdue North Central.
 The board approved Timothy S. Fisher as the James G. Dwyer Professor in Mechanical Engineering, Eckhard A. Groll as the Reilly Professor of Mechanical Engineering, Kathleen Howell as the Hsu Lo Distinguished Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Alyssa Panitch as the Leslie A.
 Geddes Professor in Biomedical Engineering, and Kaushik Roy as the Edward G. Tiedemann Jr. Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering.
 Fisher came to Purdue in 2002 as an associate professor of mechanical engineering. Before that he was an assistant professor from 1998-2002 at Vanderbilt University.
 He became a professor in 2007. From 2009-2012 he served part-time as a research scientist at the Air Force Research Laboratory. 
His areas of research are in heat, mass and electrical transport associated with nanoscale carbon materials such as carbon nanotubes and graphene.
 His research has resulted in significant improvements in thermal and electric transport at interfaces, advanced electron emission devices and enhanced cooling of semiconductor devices.
 He also has research programs involving transport processes in hydrogen storage devices, microfluidic sensors for bioanalysis and modeling of thermal systems.
 He recently co-founded a new company, Folium Nanotechnologies, LLC, that will commercialize several of his group's inventions. He is co-director of the India-U.S.
 Joint Networked Centre on Nanomaterials for Energy. He has received the National Science Foundation Career Award, is a fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and has won the ASME's McDonald Mentoring Award.
 He also has been a Purdue Faculty Scholar. He serves on the editorial boards of several journals and is the incoming co-editor of the journal 
Energy Conversion and Management. Groll has been at Purdue since 1994 when he was appointed assistant professor of mechanical engineering.
 He was appointed associate professor in 2000 and professor in 2005. Since 2008 he has been director of the Office of Professional Practice in the College of Engineering.
 From 2005-2008 he was director of global initiatives, cooperative education and professional experiences in the School of Mechanical Engineering.
 He served as interim assistant dean of engineering for research in 2012. His research focuses on fundamental thermal sciences as applied to advanced heating, ventilating, air conditioning and refrigeration systems, components and their working fluids.
 He is a fellow of the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Engineers and also has won that organization's E.K.
 Campbell Award and the Distinguished Service Award. He is a Purdue Faculty Scholar and was inducted into the Book of Great Teachers at Purdue in 2008.
 He also received the Wilbur T. Pentzer Achievement and Leadership Award from the International Institute of Refrigeration. He serves on the editorial board of the 
International Journal of Refrigeration and is on the board of directors for the IIR and the ASHRAE. Groll earned his bachelor's degree from Ruhr University in Bochum, Germany, and his doctorate from the University of Hannover in Hannover, Germany.
 Howell joined Purdue in 1982 as assistant professor of aeronautics and astronautics. Her area of research is astrodynamics. In 1996 she was one of eight engineering faculty nationally named a fellow in the first year of NASA's Advanced Concepts Research Project Program.
 The program supports research projects to investigate new concepts for future government and commercial space applications. Discover Magazine named Howell one of the "50 most important women in science" in 2002.
 She has published more than 80 archival papers and in 2004 she received the American Astronautical Society's Dirk Brouwer Award for significant contributions to spaceflight mechanics and astrodynamics.
 She has received 13 teaching awards from Purdue and eight national and international teaching awards. She was on the board of the American Astronautical Society for 10 years and has been editor-in-chief for the 
Journal of Astronautical Sciences since 1992. She received her bachelor's degree from Iowa State University and her master's degree and doctorate from Stanford University.
 Panitch came to Purdue in 2006 as an associate professor of biomedical engineering. She has been associate head of research for the Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering at Purdue since 2009.
 Prior to coming to Purdue, she was assistant professor and associate professor of bioengineering at Arizona State University. Her research focuses on designing biological and synthetic materials for drug delivery and tissue engineering as well as developing peptide-based pharmaceuticals for restoring normal healing of vascular, neural and fibrotic diseases.
 Panitch launched three successful startup companies and was the first faculty entrepreneur-in-residence at Discovery Park's Burton D.
 Morgan Center for Entrepreneurship from 2010-2012. She has received the NSF Career Award and has been a Purdue Faculty Scholar. She served on the biomaterials and biointerfaces study section for the National Institutes of Health from 2008-2012 and in 2011 was elected to the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineers College of Fellows.
 She has been on the editorial advisory board for Biomacromolecules since 2004 and on the editorial board of Biomatter since 2010.
 She earned bachelor's degrees in chemical engineering from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and in biochemistry from Smith College.
 She completed her doctorate at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. Roy has been at Purdue since 1993 when he was appointed assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering.
 He became associate professor in 1997, professor in 2001 and the Roscoe H. George Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering in 2005.
 His research interests include spintronics, low-power electronics, silicon and non-silicon device/circuit co-design, and new computing models/architecture enabled by emerging devices.
 He was the first to propose the use of power gating (sleep transistor) to reduce leakage, a technique now widely used in industry.
 He has been awarded 19 patents and published more than 200 journal papers, 400 conference papers and two books. He has received the Humboldt Research Award for senior scientists, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Circuits and Systems Society Technical Achievement Award, Semiconductor research Corporation Technical Excellence Award, Fulbright-Nehru Distinguished chair, Distinguished Alumnus Award from Indian Institute of Technology in Kharagpur, the National Science Foundation Career Development Award, and was a Purdue Faculty Scholar.
 He is a fellow of the IEEE. Roy earned his bachelor's degree from the Indian Institute of Technology in Kharagpur and his doctorate from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
 Trustees also approved a bachelor of science in health studies degree program at Purdue North Central. "This program is an integral aspect of Purdue North Central's strategic plan, contributes to economic development in northern Indiana and meets the needs of employers in this region," said Timothy Sands, executive vice president for academic affairs and provost and Purdue's Basil S.
 Turner Professor of Engineering. "This degree builds upon PNC's successful baccalaureate in nursing." Sands said nearly 400 students are enrolled as pre-nursing at PNC but most will not be admitted into nursing.
 He said they complete the first two years of the program, and then many leave because there is not a program that meets their needs.
 Ten of the 20 fastest-growing occupations are related to health care, Sands said. Health-care support occupations have a 28.7 percent projected growth rate through 2018, according to the Indiana Department of Workforce Development Agency.
 One of the positions that health studies graduates will be well prepared for, medical services manager, is No. 10 in the top 50 "
Hot Jobs" in Indiana. The program, which must be approved by the Indiana Commission for Higher Education, includes an articulation agreement with Ivy Tech Community College Northwest.
 In other business, trustees approved the request of the College of Veterinary Medicine to change the name of the associate of science degree in veterinary technology to associate of applied science in veterinary technology.
 Sands said the degree's new title is what the two-year degree was called at the time of its inception in 1976. It was changed to the associate of science degree when the bachelor of science degree program began in 1997.
 "Although the majority of students in the program continue on to the bachelor of science degree, they are all eligible to be credentialed as registered veterinary technicians in the state of Indiana and 49 of 50 states with the associate level degree," Sands said.
 Carol Connelly, director of media and communication services at Purdue University North Central, 219-785-5200, ext. 5267, cconnelly@pnc.edu
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q3/trustees-ratify-appointments,-approve-new-degree-programs.html
<Content> Trustees ratify appointments, approve new degree programs
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The Purdue University Board of Trustees on Friday (July 20) ratified appointments of top administrators at the West Lafayette and Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne campuses.
 Trustees also confirmed the appointments of two named professors, approved three new degree programs and ratified the appointments of several regional campus administrators.
 The board ratified Timothy D. Sands as acting president of Purdue and Victor Lechtenberg as acting vice president for academic affairs and provost.
 Sands, who has been at Purdue since 2002 and served as executive vice president for academic affairs and provost since 2010, will be acting president until January when Gov.
 Mitchell E. Daniels Jr. becomes the university's 12th president. Lechtenberg has held several key leadership positions over four decades at Purdue, including interim provost from 2007-2008.
 He will be acting provost until January. Vicky L. Carwein (pronounced CAR-wine) was ratified as chancellor of IPFW, effective Sept.
 1. Carwein is chancellor at Washington State University Tri-Cities in Richland, Wash. Prior to that, she served as president at Westfield State College in Westfield, Mass.
, and chancellor at the University of Washington Tacoma. Carwein also served at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, beginning as an instructor before leaving 23 years later as dean of the College of Health Sciences.
 She earned bachelor's and doctoral degrees in nursing from Indiana University-Indianapolis (now IUPUI) and her master's degree in nursing from the University of California, San Francisco.
 Trustees also approved the IPFW appointments of Walter J. Branson as acting chancellor and Steven T. Sarratore as interim vice chancellor for academic affairs.
 Branson, who began serving as acting chancellor on July 1, has been vice chancellor for financial affairs at IPFW since 1993. As chief financial officer, Branson is responsible for the budgetary and financial control of the campus.
 He directs the operations of six departments employing more than 280 people; serves as the campus public records officer; and oversees the operation of the Indiana–Purdue Foundation at Fort Wayne.
 He received his bachelor's degree from Purdue and worked for 15 years in several positions at Purdue's West Lafayette campus before coming to IPFW.
 Sarratore, who has been at IPFW since 1986, is associate vice chancellor for academic programs. He also is a professor of theater.
 His previous assignments have included chair of the theater department, interim chair of the music department, and interim dean of visual and performing arts.
 Prior to IPFW, he was on the faculty at Ashland University. He earned his MFA degree from Wayne State University. Trustees also ratified David Radcliffe as Kamyar Haghighi Head of the School of Engineering Education and Arvind Varma as the Jay and Cynthia Ihlenfeld Head of Chemical Engineering, both at the West Lafayette campus.
 Radcliffe, who has been at Purdue since 2007, was named associate head of the school in January 2009 and interim head in July 2009.
 He has served as head of the School of Engineering Education since 2010. He also has served as the Epistemology Professor of Engineering Education and chair of the graduate program.
 His research interests include interdisciplinary research methods in engineering education, design thinking and engineering knowledge creation, engineering design and design management in industry, sustainable systems design, and professional formation of engineers in practice.
 Radcliffe came to Purdue after 18 years at the University of Queensland in Australia. He has worked at various other universities and with industry in both Australia and the United States.
 He founded the Catalyst Research Centre for Society and Technology to create solutions to complex social and technological challenges facing industry and the community by considering both social science and engineering aspects.
 Radcliffe was named the inaugural National Teaching Fellow of 1994 in Australia and the first Australian Boeing Welliver Fellow.
 He earned his bachelor's and master's degrees in mechanical engineering from the University of Queensland and a doctorate in bioengineering from Strathclyde University in Scotland.
 Varma is the R. Games Slayter Distinguished Professor and head of the School of Chemical Engineering and came to Purdue in 2004.
 Before that he was on the faculty at the University of Notre Dame, beginning in 1975, serving as chair from 1982-1988 and as the inaugural Arthur J.
 Schmitt Professor from 1988-2003. He was founder and director of the Center for Molecularly Engineered Materials at Notre Dame. He also has worked as a senior research engineer for Union Carbide Corp.
 A fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, the American Institute of Chemists and the American Association for the Advancement of Science, he has co-authored three books and is founding editor of the Cambridge University Press series in chemical engineering.
 Varma's research interests are in chemical and catalytic reaction engineering, new energy sources and synthesis of advanced materials.
 He has written more than 265 archival journal research publications in these areas. He earned his bachelor's degree from Panjab University, India, his master's degree from the University of New Brunswick, Canada, and his doctorate from the University of Minnesota.
 In other business, trustees approved a bachelor's degree program in environmental and ecological engineering for the West Lafayette campus, a bachelor's degree program in technical communication at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis and a bachelor's degree program in applied computer science at IUPUI.
 No new state funding is being requested for any of the programs and no additional learning resources are necessary. All three programs are scheduled to begin this fall and require approval from the Indiana Commission for Higher Education.
 The goal of the environmental and ecological engineering program is to prepare graduates for employment in those fields or to continue education in an advanced degree program or a related field, Lechtenberg said.
 "A distinguishing feature of the program is the interdisciplinary approach and the contributions from faculty across several disciplines of engineering," Lechtenberg said.
 "Complex modern environmental problems cannot be solved by traditional environmental engineering alone, and require contributions, change in design practices and altered problem-solving approaches across engineering disciplines.
" Lechtenberg said the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts employment in environmental engineering will grow much faster than average, with the addition of almost 17,000 jobs by 2018.
 Growth in employment in the field in Indiana is expected to be equivalent or better than national projections, he said. The technical communication degree is designed to prepare graduates for entry-level technical communications work or graduate work in technical communication or related fields.
 It also is geared toward students who want a double major, pursue work in a technical field relevant to technical communication, and people in mid-career who want to upgrade their skills.
 Technical communication is a growing, dynamic field as technology becomes more complex and specialized, Lechtenberg said. Preparing students for jobs in the computer science and information technology field is the objective of the applied computer science program.
 Lechtenberg said computer science is one of the fastest growing sectors of the economy in Indiana and the nation. In 2008 and 2010, the Indiana Department of Workforce Development listed computer software engineer as the top job on the "Hot 50 Hoosier Job" list, he said.
 Two other IT industry positions requiring a bachelor's degree also were on the list. Trustees also ratified the appointment of Thomas F.
 Brady as dean of the College of Engineering and Technology at Purdue University North Central, Jane F. Mutchler as dean of the School of Management and professor of accounting with tenure at Purdue University Calumet, and Regina Biddings-Muro as interim vice chancellor for advancement at Purdue University Calumet.
 Brady, who is already serving as dean, has been on the faculty at PNC since 1998, most recently as professor of industrial engineering.
 Prior to that he was executive director of the Center for the Management of Manufacturing Enterprises at the Krannert School of Management.
 His teaching and research interests are in industrial engineering and operations research, including computer simulation, optimization and process improvement.
 Mutchler, whose appointment is effective Aug. 1, was most recently associate dean for academic planning and programs at Georgia State University.
 She also was the Ernst & Young-J.W. Holloway Memorial Alumni Professor of Accounting. She had been at Georgia State since 1999, and also served as director of the School of Accountancy.
 Before that she taught at Pennsylvania State University from 1991-1997, the University of Arizona from 1989-1991 and at Ohio State University from 1982-1989.
 She earned her bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of South Florida and her doctorate from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.
 Biddings-Muro is executive assistant to the chancellor for engagement at Purdue Calumet. She began working at Purdue Calumet in 2004 after working several years in corporate communications and broadcast journalism.
 In other business, the trustees approved resolutions of appreciation for committees that spearheaded the searches for Purdue's new president and a new chancellor at IPFW.
 Susan Alderman, media director at Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne, 260-481-6165, aldermas@ipfw.edu Wesley Lukoshus, assistant vice chancellor for advancement 219-989-2217, 
Lukoshus@purduecal.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/trustees-ratify-appointments,-approve-resolution.html
<Content> Trustees ratify appointments, approve resolution
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The Purdue University Board of Trustees on Friday (Sept. 27) ratified appointments of three named professors and approved a resolution of appreciation for former board chairman Keith Krach.
 Trustees approved Arvind Raman as the Robert V. Adams Professor in Mechanical Engineering, Fabio H. Ribeiro as the R. Norris and Eleanor Shreve Professor of Chemical Engineering, and W.
 Jason Weiss as the Jack and Kay Hockema Professor in Civil Engineering. Raman has been a professor of mechanical engineering since 2009.
 He came to Purdue in 2000 as an assistant professor of mechanical engineering and became an associate professor in 2005. His research interests include nonlinear dynamics and fluid-structure interaction of rotating or axially transported structures, microsystem design informed by dynamics of low-dimensional models, new microsystems for high-throughput mechanical imaging of live cells and tissue, and probing complex material interfaces with advanced dynamic atomic force microscopy techniques.
 He was named a fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers in 2012, received the organization's Gustus Larson Memorial Award, won a National Science Foundation Early Career Development Award and also has been a University Faculty Scholar.
 The Robert V. Adams Professorship in Mechanical Engineering was established in 2000 through an endowment by donors Robert V. Adams and Barbara Abercrombie.
 Adams is a Purdue alumnus. Raman earned his bachelor's degree from the Indian Institute of Technology in Delhi, India, his master's degree from Purdue and a doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley.
 Ribeiro is a professor of chemical engineering and has been at Purdue since 2003, when he was an associate professor. Before coming to Purdue, he was an assistant and associate professor of chemical engineering from 1996-2003 at Worcester Polytechnic Institute.
 His areas of research are in kinetics of heterogeneous catalytic processes, including high-surface area catalysts, industrial applications of catalysts and surface science techniques.
 He received the Henry J. Albert Award from the International Precious Metals Institute in 2012, a CAREER award from the NSF in 1997 and was a University Faculty Scholar.
 Ribeiro earned his bachelor's and master's degrees from the Instituto Militar de Engenharia in Brazil, and received a second master's degree and his doctorate from Stanford University.
 The R. Norris and Eleanor Shreve Professor of Chemical Engineering was established through a trust by former Purdue professor Randolph Norris Shreve and his wife, Eleanor.
 Weiss is a professor in the School of Civil Engineering and is director of the Pankow Materials Laboratories. He was associate head of the school from 2007-09 and was assistant head for research from 2005-07.
 He came to Purdue as an assistant professor in 1999. His group is actively involved in research on cement and concrete materials, specifically focused on early age property development, cracking, transport in concrete, and concrete durability and service life performance.
 A fellow of the American Concrete Institute, he received an NSF Early CAREER Award in 2002 and was a University Faculty Scholar in 2008.
 He also was elected a fellow of the Purdue Teaching Academy in 2012. He received his bachelor's degree from Penn State University and his master's degree and doctorate from Northwestern University.
 The Jack and Kay Hockema Professorship in Civil Engineering was established in 2006 by donations from Jack A. and Kay Hockema through the Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund.
 Jack Hockema is a Purdue alumnus. Trustees approved a resolution for Keith Krach, who retired from the Board of Trustees in July after serving for six years, including four as chairman.
 During Krach's tenure, Purdue saw record levels of research funding, higher retention rates and philanthropic giving of more than $1 billion.
 Krach served as chairman during the 2012 Purdue presidential search, as well as the transitions from President France A. Córdova to interim President Timothy Sands to President Mitch Daniels.
 Krach, who earned a bachelor's degree from Purdue in 1979, serves as the chairman and CEO of a San Francisco-based company, DocuSign.
 He also serves as chairman of the board at Angie's List. The board also approved the revocation of an undergraduate bachelor of science degree previously awarded to a former Purdue student who has been found responsible for various violations of university regulations, including academic dishonesty.
 The name of the student was withheld in accordance with federal regulations governing student privacy. W. Jason Weiss, 765-494-2215, 
wjweiss@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/trustees-ratify-named-professors,-approve-academic-programs,-resolutions.html
<Content> Trustees ratify named professors, approve academic programs, resolutions
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The Purdue University Board of Trustees on Friday (Feb. 8) ratified a named professorship and a change to another named professorship and also approved cooperative education programs in the College of Engineering and the Krannert School of Management.
 The board also approved three resolutions of appreciation and ratified two previously announced appointments. Trustees approved Ellen Kossek as the Basil Sidney Turner Professor of Management and Alan Gray as the Land O'Lakes Chair in Food and Agribusiness.
 Gray's position, approved by the trustees in October 2012, was previously known as the Agricultural Chair of Excellence in Engagement.
 Kossek was appointed professor of management in the Krannert School of Management and the inaugural research director of the Susan Bulkeley Butler Center for Leadership Excellence in January.
 She also is president of the Work and Family Researchers Network, an international organization of interdisciplinary work and family researchers.
 Before coming to Purdue, she was University Distinguished Professor at Michigan State University's School of Human Resources and Labor Relations.
 She has held visiting and fellowship-supported academic appointments at the University of Michigan, the Center for Creative Leadership, the University of Warwick, U.K.
, the University of South Australia and Harvard Business School. Her research is focused on leader and organizational support of positive work-life-family relationships to improve productivity, well-being and reduce stress; organizational adaptation to new ways of working such as flexible work schedules, workload and telework; and managing global workforces, gender and diversity across global cultures and contexts.
 Kossek has written a best-selling book, "CEO of Me: Creating a Life That Works in the Flexible Job Age," about flexstyles and worklife patterns.
 She also has edited or authored eight other books and published dozens of articles on current management challenges. She earned her bachelor's degree from Mount Holyoke College, an MBA from the University of Michigan and a doctorate in organizational behavior from Yale University.
 The Land O'Lakes' commitment to fund the chair in food and agribusiness was secured through Purdue's Faculty Excellence Challenge Match program.
 The initiative is designed to endow new professorships through private gifts from $750,000 to $1 million that are matched dollar for dollar.
 Trustees also approved a three-session cooperative education program certificate in the Krannert School of Management and three- and five-session cooperative education programs in the College of Engineering's Division of Environmental and Ecological Engineering.
 P. Christopher Earley, dean of Krannert, said the new cooperative education program is similar to the traditional one except it requires only three work sessions instead of five.
 "There are numerous students in Krannert who cannot participate in, or have difficulty participating in, the traditional five-session cooperative education program for various reasons," Earley said.
 "These students include members of the marching band, student athletes, foreign visa students, freshmen, upperclassmen who change their mind about work experience and students who were uncertain of a career choice as second-semester freshmen.
 It is extremely important for these students to have the opportunity to gain valuable undergraduate professional practice. "And there are several co-op employers and government agencies that are increasingly asking for later-start, three-session cooperative education students.
 The three-session cooperative education program is planned to fit this need." The new engineering cooperative program will alternate periods of employment with periods of traditional classroom activity, said John W.
 Sutherland, the Fehsenfeld Family Head of Environmental and Ecological Engineering. "We believe that the practical experience students gain in their profession will prepare them for immediate employment after graduation at a higher level, and with greater value to their employer, than would be possible without the co-op experience," Sutherland said.
 He said co-op or internship experience will make academic work more meaningful to students when they apply principles studied in the classroom to authentic practice.
 It also will help them learn about opportunities available to them in the profession. In other business, trustees approved resolutions of appreciation for Timothy D.
 Sands, Victor L. Lechtenberg and Arden L. Bement Jr. Sands, executive vice president for academic affairs and provost, was praised for his service as acting president from July 16 to Jan.
 14 when Mitch Daniels became Purdue's 12th president. Lechtenberg was cited for serving as acting executive vice president of academic affairs and provost from July 16 until Jan.
 14. Bement is stepping aside as inaugural director of the Global Policy Research Institute and Purdue's chief global affairs officer.
 Trustees also ratified Christine M. Ladisch as the first dean of the new College of Health and Human Sciences and Steven R. Schultz as Purdue's legal counsel.
 Ladisch was named dean on Jan. 9. A professor of consumer science, she served as inaugural dean when the college was launched in 2010.
 She had served as vice provost for academic affairs since July 2005 and as associate provost since 2001. Prior to those roles in the Office of Provost, she served as associate dean for academic affairs in the College of Consumer and Family Sciences from 1993-1999 and as department head of consumer sciences and retailing from 1999-2001.
 Ladisch co-chaired the accreditation steering committee that in 2010 helped Purdue earn continued accreditation from the Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools.
 Schultz joined Purdue Feb. 1 as the university's first in-house legal counsel. Schultz will advise the president and Board of Trustees on legal matters involving the university and oversee external legal work, review contracts and policies, and provide proactive advice and assistance on operations and programs.
 He has worked as an attorney with two law firms and as chief legal counsel to Daniels when he was Indiana's governor. Schultz also has served as general counsel for Irwin Financial Corp.
 and the Southeastern Indiana Health Organization, and as executive director of the Louisville and Southern Indiana Bridges Authority.
 Steven Schultz, schult51@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/truven-informed-enrollment-tool-available-now.html
<Content> Truven Informed Enrollment tool available now
 The Truven Informed Enrollment online tool is available now. Truven shows how an employee would fare under each of the 2014 medical plan options, if the employee had similar expenses next year.
 Faculty and staff can get an estimate of their total cash outlay under each of Purdue's 2014 medical plans by using the Truven Informed Enrollment tool, which is ready now.
 Truven Informed Enrollment starts with the employee's medical and prescription drug claims having dates of service between April 2012 and March 2013.
 Truven then shows how the employee would fare under each of the 2014 medical plan options, if the employee had similar expenses next year.
 Estimates take into account premiums, deductibles, coinsurance and any contributions that Purdue will make to the employee's health savings account (HSA).
 Truven stores Purdue's benefits data and has been a trusted third party for years. Under its signed HIPAA agreement with Purdue, Truven conforms to all privacy and confidentiality standards.
 All benefits-eligible employees have access to their Truven Informed Enrollment data in two ways: * Letter sent to the employee's home
: The letter will arrive in mid-October and will provide a simple estimate of the employee's total cost under each 2014 plan. * Online tool:
 The online tool is available now. Employees go to the Purdue University Employee Portal at www.purdue.edu/employeeportal, click the EBenefits link and then log on using their Purdue career account and password.
 A link to Truven Informed Enrollment is on the right side of the EBenefits home page under the "Benefit Tools" section. The online tool provides the same comparison information as the letter and offers the advantage of allowing the employee to adjust the information that Truven uses to estimate the employee's total cost under the three 2014 plans.
 For example, if an employee had a baby during the sample period of April 2012 to March 2013, but does not expect a new child in 2014, the online tool allows the employee to lower the health care cost estimate accordingly for next year.
 On the other hand, if an employee anticipates a surgery next year, the employee may add the surgery, and then let Truven estimate the surgery's cost and use it in the 2014 plan comparison.
 The online tool also lets employees add or delete family members for properly estimating the employee's medical premium, if covered family members in 2014 will be different from those shown in Truven.
 "Truven Informed Enrollment will show the employee their estimated lowest cost option for 2014," says Eva Nodine, director of benefits in Human Resources.
 "Truven is simply a resource to help employees make their decision for next year. The choice belongs to the employee." Faculty and staff who do not know their Purdue career account and password may call the service number for their campus:
 Employees with questions about Truven Informed Enrollment may contact the Human Resources Service Center at 49-42222 or hr@purdue.edu
.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/purduetoday/releases/2013/Q4/tuesdays-benefit-presentation-to-stream-live-over-web.html
<Content> Tuesday's benefit presentation to stream live over Web
 Tomorrow's presentation of "The Big Picture: 2014 Medical Options and HSAs" will be streamed live at http://www.kaltura.com/tiny/z1t1a
. The session will take place from 8:30 to 10 a.m. in Stewart Center, Loeb Playhouse. "The Big Picture: 2014 Medical Options and HSAs" looks at the dynamics affecting Purdue's medical plans and reviews all three 2014 choices.
 The session delves into the benefits of a health savings account (HSA) and explains how an HSA works together with a high-deductible medical plan.
 This final pre-enrollment session is open to all benefits-eligible Purdue employees and their spouses/same-sex domestic partners.
 Employees may attend in paid status with supervisor approval. Pre-registration is not required. Faculty and staff who attended the separate sessions -- "Is a High-Deductible Medical Plan Your Best Choice?
" and "Health Care: Moving Forward in 2014" -- do not need to attend "The Big Picture," which will cover the same information that was presented in the separate sessions.
 Recorded versions of "Is a High-Deductible Medical Plan Your Best Choice?" and "Health Care: Moving Forward in 2014" are available now on the Benefits website at 
www.purdue.edu/hr/Benefits/Medical/recordedPresentations.html. PowerPoint slides from the presentations are also offered. For questions, contact the Human Resources Service Center at 49-42222 or 
hr@purdue.edu.</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/tweet-while-you-speak-with-purdues-backdraft-ipad-app.html
<Content> Tweet while you speak with Purdue's Backdraft iPad app
 A new iPad app lets public speakers or college lecturers tweet while they are speaking. Backdraft, which was created by Purdue University, allows speakers to create Twitter messages before their talk and then release them with a double-tap as they speak.
 (Purdue University image/Michele Rund) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Modern public speakers and college lecturers are sometimes bedeviled by comments and chatter posted on Twitter while they are speaking.
 Now speakers can engage in the conversation even while they are standing at the podium with a new, free iPad app called Backdraft
. The app, which was developed by Purdue University for its instructors, allows speakers to write Twitter messages, or tweets, and release them at appropriate moments during a talk.
 The messages may contain links, photos or video clips to provide additional information about the subject. Kyle Bowen, director of informatics in Information Technology at Purdue, says that, rather than distracting the audience, the app helps the speaker keep the audience focused.
 "There has always been a backchannel during speeches and lectures, either through whispered comments or passing notes, and Twitter opens up this backchannel to the world," Bowen says.
 "Using Backdraft allows the speaker to not only control the room, but also to have some control over the backchannel conversation at the same time.
" Backdraft, a new app for the iPad, gives public speakers and college instructors the ability to join backchannel Twitter conversations about their talk while they are still speaking.
 (Purdue University image/Michele Rund) Download Photo To use the app, speakers write their tweets before their presentation and then release them during the talk by double tapping on the Tweet.
 Because Twitter messages can contain links, photos or video, speakers have the ability to deliver information and media directly to their audience.
 Users can also save messages they've used for previous presentations within the app by using hashtags. Backdraft has already been named a 
top mobile app by the U.K.'s The Guardian newspaper's Stuart Dredge. "Yep: livetweet YOUR OWN conference presentations," Dredge wrote, "which could be fun if you don't tell your audience how you're doing it.
" Backdraft is one of seven classroom mobile apps created by the Purdue Studio project. The apps can be used by instructors or students to enhance the traditional classroom experience.
 Some previous apps included Passport, which allows instructors to give students digital badges for accomplishments; Hotseat, which allows instructors to easily incorporate Twitter and text messages into their class discussion; and, 
Mixable, which allows students to create private online study groups within Facebook. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/tymora-analytical-operations-receives-500,000-nsf-phase-ii-grant-for-drug-development-technology.html
<Content> Tymora Analytical Operations receives $500,000 NSF Phase II grant for drug-development technology
 Tymora Analytical Operations receives $500,000 NSF Phase II grant for drug-development technology WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The National Science Foundation has awarded a Phase II Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grant to a life sciences company to develop a technology called pIMAGO that promotes the discovery of new disease targets in laboratory settings.
 Tymora Analytical Operations received a two-year grant worth $500,000 that is a continuation of the Phase I grant it received in 2011.
 The company was founded by W. Andy Tao and Anton Iliuk. Tao is an associate professor in the Purdue University Department of Biochemistry, and Iliuk, the president and chief technology officer, is a former Purdue Realization and Entrepreneurship Postdoctoral Fellow.
 "pIMAGO analyzes phosphorylation, a biological event related to many diseases such as cancer," Iliuk said. "We have created the technology to help researchers develop drug candidates to battle cancer, diabetes, and immune system and neurological disorders.
" "We can now test and optimize the technology to make it market-ready for effective drug screening," he said. "This funding, along with others we have received, will enable us to put in the effort necessary to develop the most optimal products, which in turn could result in more efficient cancer research.
" In addition to the NSF grants, Tymora Analytical Operations received a $150,000 SBIR Phase I grant from the National Institutes of Health to develop an unrelated application for its pIMAGO platform.
 It also received an NIH Phase I grant worth $300,000 to optimize PolyMAC and $20,000 from the Purdue-administered Emerging Innovations Fund.
 Tymora Analytical Operations was established in 2010 to provide new nanotechnology-based products to serve the R&D market in the life sciences.
 Tymora has developed a nanoscale platform technology - with PolyMAC and pIMAGO as the lead products - for unmet needs in analysis of protein phosphorylation that relates to the onset of numerous diseases, most notably cancer.
 The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country in four locations across Indiana.
 The parks are home to nearly 240 companies that employ more than 4,200 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 Anton Iliuk, 765-490-6834, anton.iliuk@tymora-analytical.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/u.s.-navy-awards-indiana-microelectronics,-purdue-500,000-to-develop-reconfigurable-microwave-filter.html
<Content> U.S. Navy awards Indiana Microelectronics, Purdue $500,000 to develop Reconfigurable Microwave Filter
 U.S. Navy awards Indiana Microelectronics, Purdue $500,000 to develop Reconfigurable Microwave Filter WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The U.S.
 Navy has awarded an 18-month Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Phase II contract worth $500,000 to develop the Reconfigurable Microwave Filter, an innovation developed in Purdue University's 
College of Engineering and commercialized by Indiana Microelectronics LLC, a Purdue Research Park-based firm. The Tunable Bandstop Filters for the Mitigation of Co-site Interference and Jamming Sources contract was awarded June 26.
 The contract funds a joint partnership between Indiana Microelectronics and Purdue's Adaptive Radio Electronic and Sensors Team, led by Dimitrios Peroulis, associate professor of electrical and computer engineering.
 Mike McPheters, director of business development at Indiana Microelectronics, said the technology will strengthen the Navy's ability to adapt dynamically to constantly changing radio frequency environments such as electronic warfare.
 "The Reconfigurable Microwave Filter technology will provide the Navy with the ability to mitigate in near real time both unintentional interference from friendly sources and intentional jamming signals from unfriendly sources," he said.
 Building on cutting-edge research in applied electromagnetics and advanced packaging materials, Indiana Microelectronics focuses on its core competency of advanced design and packaging of frequency agile components.
 The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The parks are home to about 200 companies that employ about 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Source: Mike McPheters, 630-868-8381, mmcpheters@indianamicro.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q1/u.s.news-ranks-purdues-graduate-programs-among-nations-best.html
<Content> U.S.News ranks Purdue's graduate programs among nation's best
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue University's programs remain among the best in the nation in U.S.News & World Report's rankings of the top graduate schools released Tuesday (March 13).
 "These rankings reaffirm that a Purdue degree represents a world-class educational experience," said university President France A.
 Córdova. Mark J.T. Smith, dean of the Graduate School, added, "The rankings illustrate the successes of our faculty and graduate students while highlighting the recognition their work earns from our peers.
 Purdue provides an excellent educational foundation, which includes opportunities to work with top faculty and interdisciplinary programs that allow students to address issues of global importance.
" The colleges and schools in which programs were ranked include engineering, education, business, health and human sciences, and pharmacy.
 Engineering: Purdue's College of Engineering tied with Cornell University at No. 10. Last year, the college's graduate program was ranked 11th.
 Five of the schools in engineering are in the top 10 in the country in specialty rankings, including a No. 1 ranking for agricultural and biological engineering.
 Aeronautics and astronautics ranked sixth; civil engineering ranked sixth, tied with Massachusetts Institute of Technology; mechanical engineering ranked ninth, tied with Cornell University; and electrical engineering ranked 10th, tied with Princeton University.
 Other engineering rankings include computer engineering, 11th; nuclear engineering, 11th, tied with Oregon State University; chemical engineering, 14th, tied with Carnegie Mellon and Northwestern universities; materials engineering, 14th, tied with Carnegie Mellon; industrial engineering, 15th; environmental and ecological engineering, 19th, tied with Penn State University and the University of Minnesota; and biomedical engineering, 23rd, tied with the universities of Minnesota, Virginia and Wisconsin-Madison.
 Education: Purdue's College of Education ranked 37th, up from 43rd last year. The program has climbed steadily from a ranking of 68th in 2008.
 Business: Krannert School of Management ranked 42nd, up from 49th last year. Krannert's weekend MBA program was ranked 19th. Among specialty rankings, Krannert's production/operations program was ranked seventh; supply chain/logistics was ranked 10th; and information systems was 13th, tied with Arizona State University and the University of Michigan.
 Not all disciplines are ranked each year. The following health disciplines, last updated in 2008, were ranked this year and include: 
 * Audiology: The accredited doctoral of audiology program was ranked 12th, tied with Ohio State University, University of Arizona, University of Memphis and University of South Florida.
 This specialty area was previously ranked ninth in 2008. * Speech: The accredited master's degree in speech-language pathology was ranked fifth, and tied with Northwestern University and University of Arizona.
 It ranked second in 2008. Pharmacy: The College of Pharmacy's doctor of pharmacy program ranks seventh, which is up from ninth in 2008.
 It tied with Ohio State University and University of Michigan-Ann Arbor. In the latest undergraduate rankings by U.S.News & World Report, released in August 2011, Purdue was ranked 23rd among the nation's public universities.
 Purdue also was again acknowledged for its achievements in four of eight student success categories. The categories, in which schools are listed but not ranked, are First-Year Experience, Internships, Learning Communities and Writing in the Disciplines.
 U.S.News & World Report's complete rankings in America's Best Graduate Schools will be available on newsstands April 3. U.S.News has published graduate school rankings annually since 1987.
 Extended program rankings and additional information will be available Tuesday (March 13) at http://www.usnews.com </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/undergrads-get-engineering-jobs-at-purdue-in-new-pilot-program.html
<Content> Undergrads get engineering jobs at Purdue in new pilot program
 Rachel Pereira, a senior at Purdue University, stands outside the new HP Satellite Discovery Lab. The new lab allows students to have paid HP internships and work on campus while continuing their education.
 The lab is part of Purdue's new Pathmaker program, which helps students get well-paid internships or part-time jobs in engineering and technology areas while still continuing their studies.
 (Purdue University photo by Stephen Yang) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Students at Purdue University can now get real-world work experience and good-paying jobs without leaving campus, thanks to partnership with leading tech companies through a new program called Purdue Pathmaker.
 In the pilot program, nine Purdue students and one full-time HP staff member are now working in the newly opened HP Satellite Discovery Lab, which is located in Purdue’s Envision Center for Data Visualization.
 Through the program, Purdue students are able to get part-time engineering jobs or internships on or near campus while still pursuing their education full-time.
 HP joins Purdue partners Intel and EMC as charter members of the Pathmaker program. EMC employs approximately 30 students in the Purdue Research Park, and Intel will soon begin hiring students to work on scientific applications.
 According to Purdue President Mitch Daniels, the Purdue Pathmaker program is a perfect fit for the recently launched Purdue Moves
 initiative. "This is a great example of the enhanced educational opportunities we want to provide for our students," Daniels said.
 "They get real-world work experience that will help them get jobs when they leave here, and our partner companies get help with short-term engineering projects and access to prospective employees.
 As we grow our College of Engineering, this program can only benefit our students and those who seek to employ them." Purdue students Ben Pluckebaum (left) and Jonah Ea confer on a project in the newly opened HP Satellite Discovery Lab.
 The students are doing paid engineering work on campus through a new program called Purdue Pathmakers, which brings leading tech companies to campus to hire students to do engineering jobs while they remain full-time students.
 (Purdue University photo by Stephen Yang) Download Photo According to the ManpowerGroup’s annual talent shortage survey of U.S.
 companies, engineer positions have been among the 10 hardest jobs to fill each of the past five years. Purdue, on the other hand, produces the highest number of graduates with degrees in engineering or engineering-related technology fields of any institution in the United States, according to yearly data from the U.S.
 Department of Education's Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System. In the new HP Satellite Discovery Lab, student interns have the opportunity to work on new technologies such as the new 
HP Moonshot servers, which are built from chips more commonly found in smartphones and tablets, which are more cost- and energy-efficient.
 The HP interns are benchmark testing the new servers and performing network simulations. Future projects in the HP Satellite Discovery Lab will include scientific and engineering software applications that will be used in research at Purdue.
 This past summer, the students trained with HP engineers in the HP Discovery Labs in Houston and Palo Alto, Calif., HP's two main research and development facilities.
 Students employed by EMC are working on monitoring computer security, and students who will be employed by Intel will be optimizing Purdue's 
NEMO 3-D scientific visualization software to run on Intel's Xeon Phi coprocessor. Gerry McCartney, Purdue University's CIO, vice president for information technology and Olga Oesterle England Professor of Technology, says the HP Satellite Discovery Lab is the first of what he hopes are many such partnerships.
 "HP has worked hard to help make the launch of this program a success, and we would not have been able to do this without their efforts and insights," McCartney says.
 "This program brings important benefits to both our partner companies and our students, and we hope other tech companies follow the lead of HP and the other charter companies in playing an active role in our students' education.
" HP is one of five companies that are a part of Purdue's Foundational IT Partners Program, and recently partnered with Purdue to build Conte, the nation's fastest campus supercomputer.
 A new Purdue University facility called the HP Satellite Discovery Lab brings good-paying student jobs that provide relevant work experience to campus.
 The students are working on the latest HP technologies, including the recently announced Moonshot servers. Among the student interns are (clockwise from center) Art Malinin, Jonah Ea, Rachel Periera,, and Juan Corredor.
 (Purdue University photo by Stephen Yang) Download Photo Janice Zdankus, vice president of Enterprise Group Quality and Knowledge Management, and HP's Executive Sponsor for Purdue, says that Purdue's HP Satellite Discovery Lead and the Purdue Pathmaker program are great opportunities to further students' education using the HP Moonshot and SDN technologies.
 "The technology industry continues to progress at a breakneck pace due to the growth of mobility, big data, and cloud computing, and in order to remain competitive we need a workforce that can help build the datacenter of the future," Zdankus says.
 "This partnership provides students with the opportunity to expand their skill set by conducting real-life workloads on HP Moonshot servers and exposes them to new technologies under development.
 This encourages a passion for a career in engineering at HP." Rachel Pereira, a senior majoring in electrical and computer engineering from the Chicago suburb of Bartlett, Ill.
, says the Purdue Pathmaker experience benefits her now as a student, and she expects those benefits to continue later into her professional career.
 "Everything I'm learning here relates to what I do at school and in class," she says. "I really enjoy what I'm working on, and I want it to become a full-time career.
 I would definitely recommend this program to other students. It's a unique opportunity, being able to work part-time at school and to work on such innovative products.
 Not many students have an opportunity like this, so anyone who is in the program is really fortunate." Note to Journalists: A media availability on the new Purdue HP Satellite Discovery Lab will be held at 3 p.m.
 Friday, Sept. 27, in Purdue’s Envision Center, which is located off the underground tunnel connecting the Purdue Memorial Union and Stewart Center.
 To arrange an interview with the student quoted in this release, contact Steve Tally at 765-494-9809, or at tally@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/understanding-termite-digestion-could-help-biofuels,-insect-control.html
<Content> Understanding termite digestion could help biofuels, insect control
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – A termite's own biology with help from microorganisms called protists, are keys to the insect's digestion of woody material, according to a Purdue University scientist.
 Michael Scharf, the O. Wayne Rollins/Orkin Endowed Chair in Urban Entomology, studies termite digestion to improve biofuels production and find better ways to control termites.
 The U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates the cost of controlling termites and repairing damaged homes is $2 billion each year in the United States.
 Much of the study on how termites break down woody materials, which focused on the symbiotic relationship between the insect and the bacteria living in its gut, found that bacteria apparently have little, if anything, to do with termite digestion.
 Scharf and collaborators at the University of Florida wanted to see how diet affected those bacteria. If the bacteria play a role in digestion, the type of materials the insect eats should affect the composition of the bacterial community living in the termite gut.
 More than 4,500 different species of bacteria were cataloged in termite guts. When multiple colonies of termites were independently fed diets of wood or paper, however, those bacteria were unaffected.
 "You would think diet would cause huge ecological shifts in bacterial communities, but it didn't. We didn't detect any statistical differences," Scharf said.
 What they did see were far more significant changes in gene expression in the termites and the protists that live in the insects' guts along with the bacteria.
 "The bacteria communities seem very stable, but the host and the protozoa gene expression are changing a lot based on diet," Scharf said.
 The scientists looked at 10,000 gene sequences from the termites and protists to determine which genes were expressed based on differing diets.
 Termites and protists fed woody and lignin-rich diets changed expression of about 500 genes, leading Scharf to believe those genes might be important for breaking down lignin, a rigid material in plant cell walls that isn't easily broken down when making biofuels.
 Understanding which genes are involved in digestion should help researchers track down the enzymes that actually break down woody materials in termite digestion.
 Those enzymes may be tools scientists could use to better break down biomass and extract sugars during biofuel production. The National Science Foundation, the Consortium for Plant Biotechnology Inc.
 and the U.S. Department of Energy funded the research. The findings were detailed in three papers published in the journals Molecular Ecology
, Insect Molecular Biology, and Insect Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. The Hindgut Lumen Prokaryotic Microbiota of the Termite Reticulitermes Flavipes and its Responses to Dietary Lignocellulose Composition
 Drion G. Boucias, Yunpeng Cai, Yijun Sun, Verena-Ulrike Lietze, Ruchira Sen, Rhitoban Raychoudhury, Michael E. Scharf Reticulitermes flavipes
 (Isoptera: Rhinotermitidae) is a highly eusocial insect that thrives on recalcitrant lignocellulosic diets through nutritional symbioses with gut-dwelling prokaryotes and eukaryotes.
 In the R. flavipes hindgut, there are up to 12 eukaryotic protozoan symbionts; the number of prokaryotic symbionts has been estimated in the hundreds.
 Despite its biological relevance, this diverse community, to date, has been investigated only by culture- and cloning-dependent methods.
 Moreover, it is unclear how termite gut microbiomes respond to diet changes and what roles they play in lignocellulose digestion.
 This study utilized high-throughput 454 pyrosequencing of 16S V5-V6 amplicons to sample the hindgut lumen prokaryotic microbiota of 
R. flavipes and to examine compositional changes in response to lignin-rich and lignin-poor cellulose diets after a 7-day feeding period.
 Of the &#126;475,000 high-quality reads that were obtained, 99.9% were annotated as bacteria and 0.11% as archaea. Major bacterial phyla included Spirochaetes (24.9%), Elusimicrobia (19.8%), Firmicutes (17.8%), Bacteroidetes (14.1%), Proteobacteria (11.4%), Fibrobacteres (5.8%), Verrucomicrobia (2.0%), Actinobacteria (1.4%) and Tenericutes (1.3%).
 The R. flavipes hindgut lumen prokaryotic microbiota was found to contain over 4,761 species-level phylotypes. However, diet-dependent shifts were not statistically significant or uniform across colonies, suggesting significant environmental and/or host genetic impacts on colony-level microbiome composition.
 These results provide insights into termite gut microbiome diversity and suggest that (i) the prokaryotic gut microbiota is much more complex than previously estimated, and (ii) environment, founding reproductive pair effects and/or host genetics influence microbiome composition.
 Comparative Metatranscriptomic Signatures of Wood and Paper Feeding in the Gut of the Termite Reticulitermes flavipes (Isoptera: Rhinotermitidae)
 Termites are highly eusocial insects that thrive on recalcitrant materials like wood and soil and thus play important roles in global carbon recycling and also in damaging wooden structures.
 Termites, such as Reticulitermes flavipes (Rhinotermitidae), owe their success to their ability to extract nutrients from lignocellulose (a major component of wood) with the help of gut-dwelling symbionts.
 With the aim to gain new insights into this enzymatic process we provided R. flavipes with a complex lignocellulose (wood) or pure cellulose (paper) diet and followed the resulting differential gene expression on a custom oligonucleotide-microarray platform.
 We identified a set of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) with differential abundance between the two diet treatments and demonstrated the source (host/symbiont) of these genes, providing novel information on termite nutritional symbiosis.
 Our results reveal: (1) the majority of responsive wood- and paper-abundant ESTs are from host and symbionts, respectively; (2) distinct pathways are associated with lignocellulose and cellulose feeding in both host and symbionts; and (3) sets of diet-responsive ESTs encode putative digestive and wood-related detoxification enzymes.
 Thus, this study illuminates the dynamics of termite nutritional symbiosis and reveals a pool of genes as potential targets for termite control and functional studies of termite-symbiont interactions.
 Lignin is a component of plant biomass that presents a significant obstacle to biofuel production. It is composed of a highly stable phenylpropanoid matrix that, upon degradation, releases toxic metabolites.
 Termites have specialized digestive systems that overcome the lignin barrier in wood lignocellulose to efficiently release fermentable simple sugars; however, how termites specifically degrade lignin and tolerate its toxic byproducts remains unknown.
 Here, using the termite Reticulitermes flavipes and its symbiotic (protozoan) gut fauna as a model system, we used high throughput Roche 454-titanium pyrosequencing and proteomics approaches to (i) experimentally compare the effects of diets containing varying degrees of lignin complexity on host-symbiont digestome composition, (ii) deeply sample host and symbiont lignocellulase diversity, and (iii) identify promising lignocellulase candidates for functional characterization.
 In addition to revealing over 9,500 differentially expressed transcripts related to a wide range of physiological processes, our findings reveal two detoxification enzyme families not generally considered in connection with lignocellulose digestion: 
aldo-keto reductases and catalases. Recombinant versions of two host enzymes from these enzyme families, which apparently play no roles in cellulose or hemicellulose digestion, significantly enhance lignocellulose saccharification by cocktails of host and symbiont cellulases.
 These hypothesis-driven results provide important new insights into (i) dietary lignin as a xenobiotic challenge, (ii) the complex mechanisms used by termites to cope with their lignin-rich diets, and (iii) novel lignin-targeted enzymatic approaches to enhance biofuel and biomaterial production.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/usda-predicts-bin-busting-corn,-soybean-yields.html
<Content> USDA predicts bin-busting corn, soybean yields
 INDIANAPOLIS - The U.S. Department of Agriculture on Monday (Aug. 12) predicted the nation's largest corn crop in history and the third largest soybean crop - a stark contrast from a year ago when crops were devastated by drought.
 In its annual August crop production report, the USDA's National Agricultural Statistics Service projected a national corn crop of 13.8 billion bushels on 154.4 bushels per acre - a 28 percent increase over last year's 10.7 billion bushels.
 The previous record was 13.09 billion in 2009. Soybeans are projected at 3.26 billion bushels on a yield of 42.6 bushels per acre, up 8 percent from last year's crop of 3 billion bushels.
 The drought reduced last year's corn harvest to its lowest level since 10 million bushels in 2003, and the average bushels per acre was the lowest since 113.5 in 1995.
 "To say what a difference a year makes is a huge understatement. It's a big difference this year," said Jay Akridge, Glenn W. Sample Dean of Purdue Agriculture, at the Indiana State Fair, where a panel of agricultural experts analyzed the report, which offers the first look at expected harvests for 2013.
 Purdue Extension organized the panel. Akridge, who moderated the panel, noted in his opening remarks that the report "sets up potential for a huge crop.
" Panelists were Purdue Extension agricultural economist Chris Hurt, Purdue Extension agronomists Bob Nielsen and Shaun Casteel, Indiana State Department of Agriculture Director Gina Sheets and USDA-NASS Indiana State Statistician Greg Matli.
 "We have a lot more grain this year, which will get much of the industry back to work," Hurt said. "The much bigger crop has producers and agronomists smiling, but the economists are not smiling.
 A larger crop means lower prices." While those lower prices could mean lower farm incomes, they also could offer some good news to food consumers.
 Prices of raw ingredients will be down, meaning retail food-price increases could moderate to less than the rate of inflation, Hurt said.
 In Indiana, USDA expects corn farmers to produce just shy of 1 billion bushels at 979.4 million, compared with 596.9 million bushels in 2012.
 About two-thirds of the state's corn is rated good to excellent, which is welcome news to growers this late in the season, said Nielsen, corn specialist.
 "Half of Indiana's corn crop was planted after the 15th of May, which is the third latest in the last 10 years," he said. "But we've learned that the planting date is not always a direct predictor of yield.
" According to Nielsen, Indiana corn development is about 1-2 weeks behind schedule, but moderate temperatures and timely rainfall meant the crop pollinated with little environmental stress.
 The story is similar for the state's soybean crop, said Casteel, soybean specialist. Planting was delayed, but farmers made up ground and had most of the state's soybeans in the ground within 2-3 weeks in May.
 USDA expects Indiana soybean growers to produce 261.5 million bushels, up from 223.5 million bushels in 2012. "Right now, soybean development is about a week behind, but we are set for good seed fill if we get the weather to finish it out," Casteel said.
 In fact, with continuing moderate temperatures and timely rains, Hurt, Nielsen and Casteel agreed that yields could be higher than what USDA is predicting - especially since the department's numbers are based on grower surveys compiled before Aug.
 1. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/vegetable-crops-research-will-be-highlight-at-twilight.html
<Content> Vegetable crops research will be highlight at twilight
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Vegetable growers and others interested in organic and sustainable production will learn about trials underway to improve productivity of these systems and see demonstrations of specialized equipment for small and mid-scale operations when they attend a tour of a Purdue University research farm Sept.
 9. The Vegetable Crops Research Twilight Tour will be 5:30-7:30 p.m. at Purdue's Meigs Horticulture Research Farm on S. County Road 100 East, about nine miles south of Lafayette.
 Target audiences are vegetable growers, including experienced growers looking for ways to increase the productivity and sustainability of their operations, and beginning vegetable growers seeking basic insight on equipment needs, developing crop rotation and pest management plans, and sourcing adapted crop varieties.
 The program also will benefit Purdue Extension educators and representatives of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Natural Resources Conservation Service interested in learning more about how to manage these systems.
 "Members of the general community interested in organic and sustainable vegetable production also will find this program informative, helping them to better understand what goes into vegetable farming," said Lori Hoagland, a Purdue 
Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture assistant professor who will be among presenters. The department is hosting the event.
 Other presenters include Rick Foster and Ian Kaplan of the entomology department and Kevin Gibson of botany and plant pathology department
. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/veterinarian-blazes-a-path-to-the-nations-oldest-pet-dogs-to-advance-research-on-successful-aging.html
<Content> Veterinarian blazes a path to the nation's oldest pet dogs to advance research on successful aging
 Veterinarian blazes a path to the nation's oldest pet dogs to advance research on successful aging Kyrie, a 15-year-old female Rottweiler from Homer, Alaska, will be the first dog visited by David J.
 Waters, DVM, during The Old Grey Muzzle Tour 2013. Waters will travel from Alaska to Indiana during the 40-day national tour. (Center for Exceptional Longevity Studies/Gerald P.
 Murphy Cancer Foundation photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Experts agree that discovering the secrets to successful aging will demand a sustained effort using innovative scientific approaches.
 Now a research veterinarian is betting that the oldest pet dogs living among us can shed light on a surer scientific path to discovering the secrets of successful aging and cancer resistance.
 This week marks the launch of The Old Grey Muzzle Tour 2013, a cross-country scientific expedition by David J. Waters, DVM, to study 12 of the oldest-living Rottweilers in their homes.
 The trek begins in Homer, Alaska, on Monday (March 4) and will finish April 12 in West Lafayette, Ind. The 40-day itinerary of The Old Grey Muzzle Tour 2013 includes 12 scientific stops to visit dogs and 11 additional stops, which include two academic lectures and nine celebration events where Waters will meet with groups inspired by his research.
 The tour's complete itinerary is as follows: March 4, Homer, Alaska; March 6, Anderson Island, Wash.; March 7, Amboy, Wash.; March 10, Claremont, N.H.; March 11, Staten Island, N.Y.; March 12, Wyckoff, N.J.; March 13, Madison, Va.; March 14, Richmond, Va.; March 15, Atlanta; March 16, Louisville, Ky.; March 19, Lexington, Ky.; March 21, Parke County, Ind.; March 23, Ypsilanti, Mich.; March 26, Lomira, Wis.; March 28, Tulsa, Okla.; March 30, Tijeras, N.M.; March 31 and April 1, Albuquerque, N.M.; April 3, Fort Collins, Colo.; April 6, San Diego; April 7, Aguanga, Calif.; April 9, Pray, Mont.; April 12, West Lafayette, Ind.
 Waters is director of the Center for Exceptional Longevity Studies at the Gerald P. Murphy Cancer Foundation, based at the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette.
 The Center for Exceptional Longevity Studies is home to the Exceptional Longevity Database, the first systematic study of highly successful aging in pet dogs in which Waters' research team has catalogued the lifetime health and medical histories of almost 250 canine "centenarians" - Rottweilers that have lived at least 13 years, which is more than 30 percent longer than breed average and equivalent to humans reaching 100.
 "A notable aspect of highly successful aging is the delay or avoidance of diseases such as cancer," Waters said. "The exceptionally long-lived Rottweilers we are studying have figured out how to side-step cancer, hold it in check.
 Our autopsy studies have shown that, although few of these dogs die of cancer, more than 90 percent of them are harboring one or more types of cancer at the time of death.
" Through dedicated research - the detailed examination of tissues and careful identification of markers circulating in the blood - Waters and his team hope to discover how they do it, so pets and people can walk around with cancer as a nuisance instead of a lethal killer.
 "That's why we have established the Longevity Biorepository at the Center for Exceptional Longevity Studies - the world's first collection of serum, blood cells, DNA and autopsy tissues from exceptionally long-lived dogs," he said.
 "Securing biospecimens from the 12 dogs I visit will expand the array of specimens on hand, thereby accelerating our progress." 
Waters' research on older Rottweilers is already opening avenues of inquiry on the aging-cancer connection and evaluating the impact of early life choices and interventions on healthy longevity, providing a clearer picture of how factors such as response to stress, ovaries, and obesity, impact healthy aging.
 Waters gained these new insights by changing the way aging research is conducted. "In 2010, our research on aging and healthy longevity broke out of the ivory tower and headed into the living room, capitalizing on the opportunity to study first-hand some of the oldest-living dogs in their homes," said Waters, who is associate director of Purdue's Center on Aging and the Life Course and professor in the Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences.
 Waters' Old Grey Muzzle Tour in spring 2010 captured national media attention and fueled his passion for further pursuing this novel research approach.
 "By visiting dogs in their homes, we committed ourselves to an essential tenet of discovery: There's no substitute for first-hand observations," he said.
 "Whether you are trying to understand how children learn or what it takes to age successfully, first-hand observations are critical.
" During each dog visit, Waters will perform detailed physical and neurological exams, collect DNA samples, and record body measurements.
 He will also conduct extensive interviews with owners, exploring the living environment and learning the things that owners have done to promote their pet's exceptional health.
 "At each stop, I'm searching for a special kind of information, finding the difference that will make a difference in how we and others think about the aging process," he said.
 "I'm trying to spot the connections that will put us on a surer path to discovery." After the home visit, urine and blood are collected regularly by the dog's veterinarian and sent to the Center for Exceptional Longevity Studies for analysis and specimen banking.
 The researchers also follow-up regularly with owners regarding the dog's activity level, pain and cognition. Waters sees The Old Grey Muzzle Tour 2013 as a key element in building research momentum needed to accelerate discovery.
 In this 150th anniversary of the veterinary profession, The Old Grey Muzzle Tour serves as an exemplar of the American Veterinary Medical Association's One Health initiative, championing the kinds of research intended to benefit the health of animals and humans.
 Waters, 54, will have his stamina tested by the intensive journey, but he is quick to divert attention to the true heroes of the Tour.
 "The real heroes of this expedition are those exceptionally long-lived, cancer-resistant Rottweilers who are furthering a pet-person partnership to beat cancer and uncover the secrets of successful aging," he said.
 "After my visit is over, I remember each one of them as my teacher." In addition to the scientific goals, Waters hopes to increase public awareness for the need for this brand of "connecting" research.
 "We have a real opportunity here," he said. "Dogs with extreme longevity - equivalent to humans who reach 100 years - may hold the keys to unlock the mechanisms that connect cancer resistance and successful aging.
" Since 1999, Waters' research team at the Center for Exceptional Longevity Studies has worked to expand the aging research toolkit by studying aging in pet dogs as a model for understanding healthy human longevity.
 The potential to gain from this research approach, along with the Center's progress, was summarized by Waters in a scientific paper commissioned by The National Academies of Sciences titled "Aging Research 2011: Exploring the Pet Dog Paradigm" (ILAR Journal, 2011).
 David G. Bostwick, MD, MBA, chief scientific officer of AIBioTech, which is sponsoring the celebration stop March 14 in Richmond, Va.
, described Waters' work in the context of research done by other investigators at the intersection of aging and cancer. "Dr. Waters' work with the oldest-old pet dogs is educating us, challenging the way we think about aging," Bostwick said.
 "The biogerontology field certainly needs new workhorses to generate and test new hypotheses. I'm wagering those grey muzzles that he's studying in-depth will have some intriguing stories to tell us about how we can age more successfully.
" As Waters prepares to embark on his journey, he reflected on the wisdom of the world-renowned physicist Freeman Dyson. "Professor Dyson taught us that science flourishes best when it uses freely all the tools at hand, unconstrained by preconceived notions of what science ought to be," Waters said.
 "We see pet dogs as powerful tools to deepen our understanding of the aging process. New tools mean new hope: hope that the new research can lead to longer, healthier lives.
" Requests for information about Waters' progress during The Old Grey Muzzle Tour 2013 should be addressed to Cheri Suckow, 765-775-1007, 
murphyfoundation@gpmcf.org. The Center for Exceptional Longevity Studies of the Gerald P. Murphy Cancer Foundation seeks to identify important genetic and environmental determinants of healthy longevity and to better understand the complex relationship between aging and cancer.
 While the scientific community looks for reliable research approaches to verify exciting scientific leads, we see enormous value in studying pet dogs living with their owners as a natural aging laboratory.
 There is a big payoff for validating this kind of innovative thinking - an opportunity to promote healthy longevity in both pets and people.
 The Center and its research are supported by P&G Pet Care, makers of Iams and Eukanuba, and the Rottweiler Health Foundation. The research is conducted jointly by the Murphy Cancer Foundation and Purdue University.
 The Murphy Foundation is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit research institute. The Purdue Research Park has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country in four locations across Indiana.
 The parks are home to nearly 240 companies that employ more than 4,200 people and are located in West Lafayette, Merrillville, Indianapolis and New Albany.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/wade-steffey-memorial-scholarships-awarded-to-2-indiana-students.html
<Content> Wade Steffey Memorial scholarships awarded to 2 Indiana students
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Two students from Indiana have been chosen as recipients of Purdue University's Wade Steffey Memorial Scholarship.
 Talitha J. Fischer of Grabill and Caleb J. McLean of Rochester will receive $2,000 each for the 2013-14 academic year. The Wade Steffey Memorial Fund was created by Purdue to honor student Wade Steffey, who died Jan.
 13, 2007, when he entered an electrical vault in the basement of Owen Hall, a campus residence building. His body was found March 19, 2007, after extensive searches by police agencies, university staff and hundreds of volunteers.
 Steffey, from Bloomington, Ind., was a National Merit Scholar and Eagle Scout who was majoring in aviation technology. Fischer is enrolled in the College of Science and McLean in the College of Technology.
 The recipients were selected based on academic excellence, school and community involvement, and financial need. Contact: Emily Del Real, assistant director of scholarships, Purdue Division of Financial Aid, 765-494-5059, 
edelreal@purdue.edu </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/wait-and-see-for-preschoolers-who-stutter-not-best-approach.html
<Content> 'Wait and see' for preschoolers who stutter not best approach
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — The majority of preschool children who stutter will grow out of it, but a wait-and-see approach can harm those who ultimately don't recover and set them back academically and socially, say Purdue University speech experts.
 "The recovery rate is high, about 50 percent for 4- and 5-year olds who stutter, and so it is often suggested to wait and see, but that is not always the best approach.
 Early intervention is critical for those children who will not grow out of stuttering," says Bridget Walsh, a research scientist and speech-language pathologist with the Purdue Stuttering Project.
 "We want children to be successful communicators from the start. The longer a child stutters maladaptive speech patterns may become more ingrained and less amenable to treatment.
 For some children, stuttering can become a severe lifelong disability." Parents who have any concerns about whether a child stutters should ask for a referral or contact a speech-language pathologist for an evaluation, say Walsh and Barbara Brown, a research associate and speech-language pathologist for the Purdue Stuttering Project.
 "It is not unusual for 2- to 3-year olds to be disfluent, but if children older than 3 begin to stutter, or if the child has been stuttering for 6 months or more parents should seek an evaluation.
 When stuttering starts later, children are less likely to grow out of it," Brown says. "Therapy, both direct and indirect, can help reduce stuttering severity because the brain is still undergoing developmental changes and is adaptive.
 Therapy services also can help young children deal with fears and frustrations that affect their self-esteem and interactions with their peers.
" For example, children and families can learn techniques to promote fluency, and parents can modify the way they interact with their child.
 Five percent of 4- and 5-year olds stutter, and there is currently no way to tell which children will recover and which will persist, but the Purdue Stuttering Project scientists are researching behavioral and physiological factors that may help predict which children are at greatest risk for persistence in stuttering.
 The goal is to develop a test battery that speech-language pathologists can administer to identify those children who may benefit the most from early treatment.
 The project is led by Anne Smith, a distinguished professor of speech, language and hearing sciences, and Christine Weber-Fox, a professor of speech, language and hearing sciences and a cognitive neuroscientist.
 The researchers, from the Department of Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences, recently received a $3 million grant from the National Institutes of Health, and they are currently recruiting 4- and 5-year-old children who stutter.
 More information is available at http://www.purdue.edu/stutteringproject/ Purdue Stuttering Project receives $3 million research grant
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/wasatch-photonics-hires-principal-scientist-to-develop-imaging-technology.html
<Content> Wasatch Photonics hires principal scientist to develop imaging technology
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind., LOGAN, Utah, DURHAM, N.C. - Roman Kuranov, Ph.D. and an imaging technology expert, has joined Wasatch Photonics Inc.
 as its principal scientist. Kuranov will oversee development of the company's Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) imaging systems, providing information for diagnostics and modeling of disease.
 He previously had been a research faculty member in the Department of Ophthalmology in the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, and research and development engineer at Volcano Corp.
 and CardioSpectra. Mike Sullivan, general manager of Wasatch Photonics, said Kuranov brings experience and leadership to the company.
 "Roman brings comprehensive academic and industrial experience that will greatly benefit Wasatch Photonics by improving our OCT imaging capabilities," Sullivan said.
 "He has a track record of success and will lead our efforts on the Intra-Venous (IV)-OCT grant and other OCT imaging equipment."
 "It is a very professional, ethical company with creative management. My vision for developing the OCT imaging systems matches the company's vision," he said.
 Wasatch Photonics is exhibiting through Tuesday (Sept. 10) at the American Chemical Society National Meeting & Exposition, booth 1406 in the Indiana Convention Center, 100 S.
 Capitol Ave., Indianapolis. Founded in 2002, Wasatch Photonics Inc. designs, manufactures and markets high-performance Raman spectrometers, Optical Coherence Tomography systems, enhanced holographic optics for optical networking, spectroscopy, test and measurement, and medical imaging applications.
 Their high-performance Volume Holographic Optic Elements (HOEs) and gratings are used in a diverse set of industries, including those in the defense and security, chemical manufacturing, pharmaceutical, medical, energy, education, computer, and electronics markets.
 Their products are based on proprietary holographic recording media and Dickson grating technologies. The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Source: Mike Sullivan, 919-544-7785, msullivan@wasatchphotonics.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/wasatch-photonics-to-attend-the-innovation-showcase,-launch-new-oct-imaging-system.html
<Content> Wasatch Photonics to attend The Innovation Showcase, launch new OCT imaging system
 The Spark OCT (Optical Coherence Tomography) system from Wasatch Photonics Inc. captures an image of the retina's anterior chamber.
 Wasatch Photonics' executives will present the technology at The Innovation Showcase, which will be from 1-8 p.m. Thursday (July 11) at Dallara IndyCar Factory, 1201 Main St.
, Speedway. (Wasatch Photonics photo) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind., LOGAN, Utah, DURHAM, N.C. - Executives from Wasatch Photonics Inc.
 will attend The Innovation Showcase to present an Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) imaging system that provides new information for diagnostics and modeling of disease.
 The Innovation Showcase will be 1-8 p.m., Thursday (July 11) at Dallara IndyCar Factory, 1201 Main St., Speedway, Ind. OCT is a 3-D optical imaging technique that can provide much higher resolution compared to ultrasound.
 William Brown, vice president of business development, said the technology applies to many facets of research and has clinical applications.
 "Spark OCT has a deeper imaging range and higher speed compared to other OCT systems on the market," he said. "Further clinical development aims to provide physicians with images to support diagnosis and treatment of patients in many health-care sectors.
" Brown described the specifications that differentiate the Spark OCT system from ones currently on the market. "The 1310 nm wavelength provides better penetration into samples such as skin, and sees through materials such as silicon that are opaque at visible wavelengths," he said.
 "This system has an imaging range of 10 millimeters with a resolution of 15 microns." While OCT is customary in many procedures now, Brown said Spark OCT opens up opportunities to enter new areas of medical application.
 "OCT is established as the standard of care for retinal ophthalmology," he said. "With our Spark OCT technology, we can move into new markets such as anterior chamber ophthalmology, dermatology, oncology, image-guided surgery and others.
" Brown said Wasatch Photonics is looking forward to attending The Innovation Showcase, where exhibitors have an opportunity to win $60,000 in cash and professional services.
 "Wasatch Photonics is looking for investors to support the OCT technology in a spinoff company that will focus exclusively on the medical markets.
 We are pleased The Innovation Showcase invited us to exhibit and pitch our new OCT system to potential investors," he said. "The development of this device to aid in the diagnoses and treatment of vascular disorders will continue our legacy and goal of developing innovative imaging products.
" Wasatch Photonics is headquartered in Logan, Utah, has a division in the Research Triangle Park in Durham, N.C., and opened an office in the Purdue Research Park of West Lafayette in April.
 Founded in 2002, Wasatch Photonics Inc. designs, manufactures and markets high-performance Raman spectrometers, Optical Coherence Tomography systems, enhanced holographic optics for optical networking, spectroscopy, test and measurement, and medical imaging applications.
 Their high-performance Volume Holographic Optic Elements (HOEs) and gratings are used in a diverse set of industries, including those in the defense and security, chemical manufacturing, pharmaceutical, medical, energy, education, computer, and electronics markets.
 Their products are based on proprietary holographic recording media and Dickson grating technologies. The Purdue Research Park, with four locations across Indiana, has the largest university-affiliated business incubation complex in the country.
 The park network is home to about 200 companies that employ 4,000 people and are located in West Lafayette, Indianapolis, Merrillville and New Albany.
 Source: William J. Brown, 919-237-5350, wbrown@wasatchphotonics.com</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/wbaa-begins-fall-member-drive-with-10,000-power-hour-matching-gift-to-encourage-membership.html
<Content> WBAA begins fall member drive with $10,000 'Power Hour' matching gift to encourage membership
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - WBAA, Public Radio from Purdue University, will begin its fall member drive with a 60-minute "Power Hour" during which all memberships and donations will be matched up to $10,000.
 The Power Hour will be 7-8 a.m. Friday (Oct. 11) and will begin a weeklong push for station membership, a funding source that pays for 100 percent of programming costs.
 The matching gift was made possible through donations from more than 75 current WBAA listener-supporters who gave additional gifts to the station.
 "The fall member drive is one of the most exciting times of the year for WBAA," said Greg Kostraba, WBAA program director and interim station manager.
 "We are thankful to our members whose donations enable us to continue doing what we do best – bring respected and reliable news, world-class music and enjoyable entertainment programming to the Greater Lafayette area.
 The loyalty of our listeners and the additional financial support we have received speaks to the value the community sees in public radio.
" In 2012 WBAA raised more than $13,000 on the first day of its member drive; this year the station hopes to increase that total through new and renewal memberships.
 "We have an ambitious goal to bring in $15,000 on the first day of this year's member drive. In preparation for our Power Hour, we have already raised $10,000 in additional support from our current members to help motivate all WBAA listeners to make a contribution.
 With these matching funds, if just 75 new and renewing members supported WBAA with $100 contributions we would meet our goal for the day, propelling us toward a successful fall member drive," said Chrissie Ankerberg, WBAA's director of development.
 The WBAA fall member drive will continue through Thursday (Oct. 17). Contributions can be made by phone at 496-1999 or online at any time.
 Additional information on member benefits can be found on the member benefits page. As a non-profit, listener-supported radio station, the contributions of WBAA's listener-supporters are necessary to support the station's programming costs.
 WBAA-AM, licensed in 1922, is Indiana's longest continuously operating radio station, and provides NPR news plus jazz, folk, bluegrass and adult alternative music.
 101.3 FM primarily airs classical music and the NPR newsmagazines "Morning Edition" and "All Things Considered." Both stations feature entertainment programming on the weekend, such as "Car Talk" and "A Prairie Home Companion.
" The station also airs a second FM stream, 101.3-2, which features an alternative mix of music. All three broadcast streams are available on HD radio receivers and online at WBAA.org.
 Source: Chrissie Ankerberg, 765-496-7794, cankerberg@purdue.edu</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q2/webinar-to-help-arthritis-sufferers-keep-their-gardens-growing.html
<Content> Webinar to help arthritis sufferers keep their gardens growing
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Gardeners who suffer from arthritis will learn from a May 29 webinar that they still can find ways to continue their hobby.
 The National AgrAbility Project at Purdue University will host the free webinar to provide an overview of gardening tasks and the relationship between arthritis pain management and gardening activities.
 "Gardening with Effective Arthritis Management" will begin at 3 p.m. EDT. "Those with arthritis don't necessarily have to give up this popular pastime because they have arthritis pain," said Paul Jones, National AgrAbility Project manager.
 "This webinar will help show them how they can continue to enjoy it." Arthritis is the No. 1 disability-causing disease in America, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 Nearly 50 million Americans have been diagnosed with at least one form of arthritis. In addition to the enjoyment it brings, gardening is also a beneficial activity for maintaining range of motion, bone density and strength, joint flexibility and overall quality of life, Jones said.
 Amber D. Wolfe, National AgrAbility Project coordinator for the Arthritis Foundation, and Stephen J. Swain, assistive technology specialist for the National AgrAbility Project, will lead the presentation.
 Wolfe serves as a national resource for rural arthritis issues and provides training workshops for professionals and consumers. Swain conducts disability and accessibility assessments of farms, homes and businesses and works in cooperation with Indiana Vocational Rehabilitation.
 Register at www.tinyurl.com/garden-webinar by May 24. Instructions for accessing the webinar will be sent to registrants by May 28.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/webinars-on-fruit,-vegetable-food-safety-set-for-november.html
<Content> Webinars on fruit, vegetable food safety set for November
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue Extension online workshops helping fruit and vegetable farmers meet food safety regulations should they want to sell their products to restaurants, wholesalers, food hubs and other operations will continue in November.
 The webinar series "Good Agricultural Practices from A to Z" will be held Nov. 14, 19 and 21 at numerous locations in Indiana. It will include sessions on health and hygiene, water quality and treatment, animals and animal products, sanitation on the farm, documentation and recordkeeping, and farm food safety plans.
 Jodee Ellett, Purdue Extension's local foods coordinator, noted that farmers wanting to sell to restaurants, brokers, wholesalers, food hubs and some auctions will be required to not only register with the state as a wholesale fruit and vegetable wholesaler but also show proof of knowledge of food safety 
Good Agricultural Practices, known in the industry as GAPs. Attending "Good Agricultural Practices from A to Z" will meet this requirement of the new regulations.
 Attendance at all three sessions is required to receive a GAPs Certificate of Attendance from Purdue Extension. As with webinars held in July, the target audience is current and prospective fruit and vegetable farmers, market gardeners, and managers of community gardens that distribute produce to the public.
 The workshops' goal is to present current science-based information on how to reduce risk of contamination during production of fruits and vegetables, as well as provide practical knowledge on planning and documenting food safety practices from planting through marketing.
 * Bartholomew County Extension Office, 1971 State St., Columbus. Contact: Kris Medic, 812-379-1665, mailto:kmedic@purdue.edu. * Clinton County Extension Office, 1111 S.
 Jackson St., Frankfort. Contact: Curt Emanuel, 765-659-6380, mailto:cemanuel@purdue.edu. * Delaware County, Minnetrista, 1200 N Minnetrista Pkwy, Muncie.
 Contact: Michael O'Donnell, 765-747-7732, modonnel@purdue.edu. * Elkhart County 4-H Fairgrounds Purdue Extension Office (Nov. 14 and 19) and Community Building (Nov.
 21), 17746 County Road 34, Goshen. Contact: Jeff Burbrink, 574- 533-0554, jburbrink@purdue.edu. * Floyd County Extension Office, 3000 Technology Ave.
, Suite L2110, New Albany. Contact: Gina Anderson, 812-948-5470, gmanders@purdue.edu. * Fountain and Warren counties, Warren County Learning Center, 28 E 2nd St.
, Williamsport. Contacts: Courtney Steirwalt, 765-793-2297, dickerso@purdue.edu, or Kelly Pearson, kppearson@purdue.edu. * Hancock County Extension Office, 802 N.
 Apple St., Greenfield. Contact: Roy Ballard, 317-462-1113, rballard@purdue.edu. * Hendricks County Extension Office, 1900 E. Main St.
, Danville. Contact: Jon Cain, 317-745-9266, mailto:joncain@purdue.edu. * Jefferson County Extension Office, 315 Jefferson St., Madison.
 Contact: Lonnie Mason, 812-265-8919, mailto:lmason1@purdue.edu. * Kosciusko County Extension Office, 202 W. Main St., Warsaw. Contact: Kelly Heckaman, 574-372-2340, 
kheckaman@purdue.edu. * LaGrange County Office, 114 W. Michigan St., Suite 10, LaGrange. Contact: Steve Engleking, 260-499-6334, 
sengleking@purdue.edu. * Marshall County Extension Office, 112 W. Jefferson St., Room 304, Plymouth. Contact: Robert Yoder, 574-935-8545, 
ryoder@purdue.edu. * Monroe County Extension Office, 3400 S. Walnut St., Bloomington. Contact: Amy Thompson, 812-349-2575, mailto:afthompson@purdue.edu
. *Switzerland County Extension office, 708 W. Seminary St., Vevay. Contact: Weaver Kyle Weaver, 812-427-3152, keweaver@purdue.edu
. * Tippecanoe County: Purdue University Campus Agricultural Administration Building, Room 121, 615 W. State St., West Lafayette.
 Contact: Jodee Ellett, 765-494-0349, mailto:jellett@purdue.edu. * Vanderburgh County Extension Office (Posey County combined), 13301 Darmstadt Road, Evansville.
 Contact: John Neufelder, 812-838-1331, neufelde@purdue.edu (Posey), or Larry Caplan, 812-435-5287, mailto:lcaplan@purdue.edu. * Vermillion County Extension Office, 255 S Main St.
 (Courthouse), Newport. Contact: Phil Cox, 765-492-5335, cox119@purdue.edu. * Vigo County, Ivy Tech Workforce Development, 1700 Industrial Drive, Room T-100, Terre Haute.
 Contact: Jim Luzar, 765-364-6363, mailto:luzar@purdue.edu. Those interested in participating, needing special accommodations or having questions should email Ellett at 
jellett@purdue.edu or their host in the above. Registration, due by Nov. 5, costs $30 per person and $10 for each additional person from the same farm.
 Those who would like to join from another location with high-speed Internet connection can do so at no charge. Participants can 
register online at https://purdue.qualtrics.com/SE/?SID=SV_brw5RrwGUeSqDI1 or pick up a registration form at their host office. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/website-helps-instructors-write-motivating-messages.html
<Content> Website helps instructors write motivating messages
 PassNote, a new app created by Purdue University, helps teachers and professors write more effective motivational messages to students.
 The free online app is open for anyone to use. (Purdue University image) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Teachers and college faculty members who want to motivate students may sometimes struggle to find the right words.
 And even when the right words are found, students will soon tune out messages if the same words are used repeatedly. Now, a new application website from Purdue University is available to help instructors write student messages by pulling together sentences and phrases that have been shown to be effective through academic research.
 The app website, called Purdue PassNote, is free and available for anyone to use. It can be found at http://purdue.edu/passnote.
 Kyle Bowen, director of informatics in Information Technology at Purdue, says the messages are based on academic research in communications and education on the most effective message lengths, word choices and requested actions.
 The app was designed using research on effective academic communications conducted at Purdue by Matt Pistilli, who led the research team behind PassNote.
 For example, research has shown that the ideal length for a corrective message to a student is about 54 words, or roughly twice the length of a Twitter message.
 Any longer, and the students often stopped reading. "That limit is Twitteresque in that it forces you to carefully select each word," Pistilli says.
 "But if you are concise you can actually say quite a bit in a message of that length." To use the app, instructors first select a topic, such as attendance or missed assignments, and then select a level, indicated by red, yellow or green tabs, that reflects the student's behavior.
 The app then provides a selection of sentences or phrases that the instructor can drag and drop into a window to construct a message.
 The message is automatically copied into the user's clipboard, so the instructor can then paste the message into an email, an online learning program, or even into a Twitter or Facebook direct message.
 "The technology helps the instructor to provide actionable feedback no matter what technology they are using," Bowen says. "We'll be looking at which phrases get used, which ones are never used and what the final messages look like," he says.
 "We'll take this information and combine it with the direct feedback we get from users to continually improve the tool." At Purdue, the PassNote app will be combined with the Signals student success data analytics tool to quantitatively measure the effectiveness of the messages to further improve the tool.
 PassNote is one of eight classroom apps created by the Purdue Studio project. The apps can be used by instructors or students to enhance the traditional classroom experience.
 Matt Pistilli, 765-494-6746, mpistilli@purdue.edu, Twitter: @mdpistilli </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/weed-scientist-control-poison-hemlock-in-the-fall.html
<Content> Weed scientist: Control poison hemlock in the fall
 A Purdue Extension weed scientist is urging crop and livestock producers to control poison hemlock in the fall. (Purdue Botany and Plant Pathology photo/Travis Legleiter) 
Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Crop and livestock producers with poison hemlock in their pastures, crops or ditches should consider treating the weed in the fall, a Purdue Extension weed specialist says.
 Poison hemlock is a biennial weed that is toxic to both livestock and humans, if enough is consumed. It can be identified by its finely divided, toothed leaves and white flowers.
 Its stems are hairless, have purple spots or blotches and can grow to 2-7 feet in height. "The weed seems to be spreading, becoming a more common occurrence in pastures, agronomic crops, fencerows and roadsides," Bill Johnson said.
 "It can be difficult to control in the spring. It's easier to control in the fall because it's more sensitive to herbicides." The plant growth and appearance is more visible in the spring, when the plants "bolt" or elongate rapidly and the white flowers bloom, so that's when most people become concerned with it.
 But Johnson said there is active rosette formation of the weed in the fall. "Growers should really think about fall-applied herbicide treatments whether they're treating their pastures or fields going to corn or soybeans next year," he said.
 "They should be treating them in the fall to control poison hemlock." For control in grass pastures, he recommended using one of a couple of herbicides that contain triclopyr as an active ingredient.
 The good news for livestock producers is that while poison hemlock is considered to be most toxic in the fall, livestock usually won't eat the plant if there are other options in the pasture.
 "Cows won't usually eat poison hemlock because this weed doesn't taste as good as the more desirable pasture species," Johnson said.
 "But if the pasture is limited in desirable forages, then there may be a situation where the cows will get hungry enough to eat the plant.
" In corn or soybeans where poison hemlock is a nuisance, growers can try an aggressive tillage program to disrupt it. If a herbicide is needed for control in agronomic crops, Johnson recommended applying products containing dicamba.
 Farmers should be aware that some herbicides can damage legumes or other desired vegetation, so they need to double-check labels before applying them.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/weekly-liberal-arts-series-highlights-alumni.html
<Content> Weekly liberal arts series highlights alumni
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — A variety of career experiences, including global affairs, toy design and government relations, will be highlighted in the Purdue University College of Liberal Arts weekly alumni series this fall.
 The class and speaker series is part of the GS 300, LA (Liberal Arts) Influentials course that is offered to liberal arts students and taught by Irwin Weiser, the Justin S.
 Morrill Dean of Liberal Arts. The class meets from 11:30 a.m. to 12:20 p.m. on Fridays in Beering Hall, Room 2290. The lectures are free and open to the public as seating allows.
 * Sept. 20. Mark Achler, former senior vice president at Redbox in Deerfield, Ill., who earned a bachelor's degree in history in 1980.
 More information is available at http://www.cla.purdue.edu/alumni/gs300/Fall_2013/Mark_Achler.html * Sept. 27. Emerging Voice Award recipients panel discussion.
 Kendra Bracken-Ferguson, the co-founder/chief operating officer of Digital Brand Architects, New York City, who earned a bachelor's degree in communication in 2002, and Eric Siebenaler, design manager of D+D, Hasbro, Inc.
, in Providence, R.I., who earned a bachelor's degree in industrial design in 2002. More information is available at http://www.cla.purdue.edu/alumni/gs300/Fall_2013/Kendra_Bracken_Ferguson.html
 and http://www.cla.purdue.edu/alumni/gs300/Fall_2013/Eric_Siebenaler.html * Oct. 4. Kim Koeller, president/CEO of Gluten and Allergy Free Passport, in Chicago who earned a bachelor's degree in French in 1978.
 More information is available at http://www.cla.purdue.edu/alumni/gs300/Fall_2013/Kim_Koeller.html * Oct. 11. Jennifer Glazer, OI-GPS Senior Manager, Grant Thornton, LLP in Washington, D.C.
, who earned a bachelor's degree in communication in 1998. More information is available at http://www.cla.purdue.edu/alumni/gs300/Fall_2013/Jennifer_Glazer.html
 * Oct. 18. Harold Bickham, partner with Barnes and Thornburg in Indianapolis, who earned a bachelor's degree in political science in 1970.
 More information is available at http://www.cla.purdue.edu/alumni/gs300/Fall_2013/Harold_Bickham.html * Oct. 25. Matthew Miller, vice president of Business Roundtable in Washington, D.C.
, who earned a bachelor's degree in political science in 2000. More information is available at http://www.cla.purdue.edu/alumni/gs300/Fall_2013/Matt_Miller.html
 * Nov. 1. Harry Drozdowski, associate at Weinstock Manion A Law Corp. in Los Angeles, who earned a bachelor's degree from sociology in 2006.
 More information is available at http://www.cla.purdue.edu/alumni/gs300/Fall_2013/Harry_Drozdowski.html * Nov. 8. Thomas Christopoul, senior managing director of global real estate and infrastructure group for the Guggenheim Partners LLC in New York City, who earned a master's degree in organizational communication in 1988.
 More information available at http://www.cla.purdue.edu/alumni/gs300/Fall_2013/Tom_Christopoul.html * Nov. 15. Todd B. Putman, chief marketing officer at Bolthouse Farms, who earned a bachelor's degree in communication in 1984.
 More information available at http://www.cla.purdue.edu/alumni/gs300/Fall_2013/Todd_Putman.html * Nov. 22. Ed O'Rourke, vice president of procurement at Knowledge Universe, who earned a bachelor's degree in political science in 1985.
 More information available at http://www.cla.purdue.edu/alumni/gs300/Fall_2013/Ed_ORourke.html Sources: Chris Sharp, director of alumni relations and special events, 765-494-7884, 
ctsharp@purdue.edu College of Liberal Arts</Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/weird-al-yankovic-to-host-25th-anniversary-screening-of-uhf.html
<Content> 'Weird Al' Yankovic to host 25th anniversary screening of 'UHF'
 West Lafayette, Ind. – Two days before his concert at Purdue on Oct. 11, "Weird Al" Yankovic will host a 25th anniversary screening of his 1989 film "UHF" at 7 p.m.
 Oct. 9 at the Eastside 9 movie theater in Lafayette. The screening will be followed by a question and answer session. All tickets are $10 and must be purchased in advance at 
http://www.gqti.com/ or in person at Eastside 9 beginning at 11 a.m. on Thursday (Sept. 26). Tickets for the general public are: Zone A, $39; Zone B, $32; and Students: Zone A, $34; Zone B $28.
 Prices include a facilities fee. There is a limit of 6 tickets per person. Prices include a facilities fee. (Limit of 6 tickets/person.
) Tickets available through campus box offices, by phone at (765) 494-3933 or through convocations.org. "Weird Al" Yankovic is the biggest selling comedy recording artist of all time and a three-time Grammy Award winner.
 Yankovic is best known for his parodies of big musical stars, and hits such as "Eat It," "Smells Like Nirvana," "Amish Paradise" and "White & Nerdy," which was No.
 1 in iTunes and viewed more than 100 million times on the Internet. His latest album, "Alpocalypse," is his highest on the charts, peaking at No.
 9 on Billboard. He also is the author of two children's books including "When I Grow Up" (No. 4 on the New York Times best seller list) and its new sequel "My New Teacher and Me!
" </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/wet-spring,-summer-raise-mold-concerns-for-homeowners.html
<Content> Wet spring, summer raise mold concerns for homeowners
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Homeowners with moisture damage from the rain and floods that have soaked much of Indiana in recent weeks should be on the lookout for mold, say members of a 
Purdue Extension team that helps residents solve mold problems. "If you have moisture damage, you will have mold issues. Deal with the damage as soon as possible," said Mary Lou Elbert, Purdue Extension director for Warrick County and co-coordinator of the Purdue Mold Team.
 Time is of the essence in treating mold because of the ease and speed with which it can spread. Mold can grow on nearly any material and in temperatures ranging from 32 to 100 degrees.
 A combination of dampness and heat is an ideal environment for mold. Mold can begin growing 24-48 hours after water damage, said Terri Newcom, health and human services educator and Purdue Extension director for Tipton County, an area hit with floods.
 Mold can be detected easily by sight and smell. It can appear in a variety of colors and is often accompanied by a musty odor. Residents who spot mold in their home or even just suspect they have it should contact the Mold Team for help, Newcom said.
 Residents can reach Mold Team co-coordinators Elbert at 812-897-6101, elbert@purdue.edu, and Denise Schroeder at 219-984-5115, schroedd@purdue.edu
. The Mold Team cautions against repairing and rebuilding too quickly. Homeowners who do not wait for damaged areas to dry out thoroughly before reconstruction might have a recurring mold problem.
 Homeowners who are unsure whether their home is dry enough to repair can ask the Mold Team to inspect their home with a meter that measures the amount of moisture in walls.
 Besides damaging property, mold also can pose a health hazard. Inhaling spores or touching moldy surfaces can result in coldlike symptoms, such as congestion, coughing, wheezing and sore throat.
 Asthma symptoms may worsen, and people with respiratory problems may experience headaches or nausea. Reactions to mold vary, however, and not everyone is affected.
 "It really depends on the individual," Newcom said. * The best way is to keep your home dry. Make sure that crawl spaces aren't damp, and inspect for leaks or crevices where water or moisture can enter.
 * Use a dehumidifier or air conditioning system to maintain a humidity level at 50 percent or below. Houseplants also can reduce humidity in the home.
 * Wipe condensation off shower walls, and run a fan or ventilator in bathrooms and kitchens. "You need to exhaust that moist air to the outside," Elbert said.
 * Check areas that are most susceptible to mold growth, such as the basement, corners, and under the refrigerator and washing machine.
 * To clean hard surfaces, use a detergent solution, followed by a bleach solution. Allow the area to dry for 15 minutes. Then rinse it and dry it with a hair dryer or heater.
 Exercise caution when using bleach, and never mix bleach and ammonia. When treating mold, be sure to wear rubber gloves, eye protection, a facemask, and long sleeves and pants.
 A video with tips on how to clean your home after water damage is available at http://youtu.be/A8qYCNr4o24. The information also is available in the publication 
First Steps to Flood Recovery, available for free online in multiple formats at The Education Store of Purdue Extension. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/women-in-engineering-to-hold-open-house-for-grades-k-8.html
<Content> Women in Engineering to hold open house for grades K-8
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Purdue University's Women in Engineering Program will showcase its afterschool outreach program, Imagination, Innovation, Discovery and Design (I2D2), during a Nov.
 16 open house. The program is free and open to girls and boys in grades K-8. It will be held in Hampton Hall of Civil Engineering, rooms 2118 and 2123.
 Students and their families may come any time from 9 a.m. to noon to explore the open exhibits. Students and families will be able to participate in hands-on activities at 10 a.m.
 and 11 a.m. The activities will explore basic engineering concepts under the guidance of engineering students. No pre-registration is required.
 Children must be under parental supervision during the event. For more information, email Becca Scott, I2D2 program coordinator, at 
scott116@purdue.edu, call the WIEP office at 765-496-7442 or go to https://engineering.purdue.edu/WIEP </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/womens-contributions-to-agriculture-lauded-at-state-fair.html
<Content> Women's contributions to agriculture lauded at state fair
 Deborah J. Jordan (left) of Richmond and Marianne Ash of Lafayette were honored with Purdue Extension's Women in Agriculture Awards on Wednesday (Aug.
 14) during a ceremony at the Indiana State Fair in Indianapolis. Jordan received the Achievement Award and Ash the Leadership Award.
 (Purdue Agricultural Communication photo Keith Robinson) Download Photo INDIANAPOLIS - Purdue Extension recognized the leadership and achievements of two Indiana women by honoring them with its Women in Agriculture awards.
 The annual awards, presented Wednesday (Aug. 14) at the Indiana State Fair, recognize innovative women who have made significant contributions to Indiana agriculture.
 "We need to spotlight women who are committed to the success of Indiana agriculture," said Danica Kirkpatrick, engagement program manager for the College of Agriculture and co-chair of the awards committee.
 "We look for hard-working women who are dedicated to their communities and the industry. These recipients are very deserving of this recognition.
" The Leadership Award, given to a woman in an agribusiness or policymaking position, was presented to veterinarian Marianne Ash of Lafayette.
 As the director of Animal Health Programs for the Indiana State Board of Animal Health, Ash plans and coordinates state-level responses to animal health emergencies and disease outbreaks.
 She has pioneered disease traceability and biosecurity work in Indiana, spearheading new software programs such as the USAHERDS database, which was created to help protect animal health, public health and the economy in the event of animal health emergencies and other disasters.
 Ash also acts as a link between the Board of Animal Health and producers and recently worked with swine operations in their effort to control porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome.
 Her other leadership roles include serving as a board member of the American College of Veterinary Preventive Medicine, a chairperson of the Indiana Veterinary Medical Association's Committee for Disaster Preparedness and Public Health, an adjunct professor at the Purdue University College of Veterinary Medicine and a member of the U.S.
 secretary of agriculture's Advisory Committee on Swine Health Protection. She previously served as a member of the Purdue Extension Agrosecurity Team and the U.S.
 Animal Health Association's Committee on Foreign and Emerging Diseases. The Achievement Award, which recognizes women directly involved with a home farming operation, was presented to Deborah J.
 Jordan of Jordan Farms, a 3,000-acre family-owned grain farm and farrow-to-finish swine operation in Richmond. Jordan's work includes keeping records for the 1,200 sows, weaning more than 500 piglets a week, administering vaccines and monitoring herd health.
 Jordan is also the District Six Farm Bureau women's leader, advocating for Indiana agriculture across the state and supervising educational activities for women's programs in eight east-central Indiana counties.
 A mother of five and former elementary school teacher, Jordan volunteers for the Wayne County Farm Bureau's "Ag in the Classroom" program and educates more than 500 students on how food is produced.
 After budget cuts reduced local Extension educator positions, Jordan stepped in to coordinate the "Chick It Out" program, which delivers incubators and fertile eggs to elementary classrooms in Richmond.
 Jordan has also served as founder and leader of a 4-H club and Parent Teacher Organization president for Garrison Elementary School.
 She is a member of the Wayne County 4-H and Extension boards, Extension Homemaker Club, Indiana Soybean Alliance and Indiana Corn Marketing Council.
 Jordan volunteers at the Preble County Pork Festival and Wayne County Conservation Days. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/workshop-series-to-offer-updates-on-legal,-tax-and-estate-issues.html
<Content> Workshop series to offer updates on legal, tax and estate issues
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - Purdue Extension will offer a Farm Law and Taxes workshop at five Indiana locations in December to help individuals, farmers, landowners and family business operators understand legal and tax issues, and estate and business transfers.
 Gerry Harrison, Purdue Extension farm management and agricultural law specialist, will discuss a series of topics, including the drainage law, right-to-farm law, real estate transfer taxes, land trusts and conservation easements.
 More information about each session and registration forms are available at http://www.agecon.purdue.edu/extension/programs/index.asp
. All workshop sessions will run from 8:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Eastern time. Dates, locations, registration deadlines and contact information are as follows:
 * Dec. 9. Jackson County Community Foundation Building, 107 Community Drive, Seymour. Register by Dec. 6 to the Purdue Extension Jackson County office at 812-358-6101.
 * Dec. 10. Johnson County Fairgrounds, 484 North Morton St., Franklin. Register by Dec. 9 to the Purdue Extension Johnson County office at 317-736-3724.
 * Dec. 11. Purdue Extension Allen County office, 401 Crescent Ave., Fort Wayne. Register to the office by Dec. 9 at 260-481-6826.
 * Dec. 12. Elkhart County 4-H Fairgrounds, 17746 County Road 34, Goshen. Register by Dec. 6 to the Purdue Extension Elkhart County office at 574-533-0554.
 * Dec. 13. Grant County 4-H Fairgrounds, 1403 E. state Route 18, Marion. Register by Dec. 6 to the Purdue Extension Grant County office at 765-651-2413.
 Registration is $30 per person and $20 for a registered individual's spouse. It includes a continental breakfast, lunch, snacks and workshop materials.
 Continuing education credits are available for Indiana accountants and lawyers. The workshop is $75 for those who want to earn continuing professional education and an additional $20 for an individual's second certification.
 Checks should be made payable to the Purdue CES Ed Fund. For more information, contact Harrison at harrisog@purdue.edu or call the toll-free number, 888-398-4636 Ext.
 44216. </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q3/workshop-to-offer-essentials-of-wine-evaluation,-tasting-room-management.html
<Content> Workshop to offer essentials of wine evaluation, tasting room management
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - A Purdue Extension workshop in September will present principles of grape growing, winemaking and wine marketing to help winemakers and employees better manage their tasting rooms.
 Members of the Purdue Wine Grape Team will discuss commercial winemaking styles, wine judging and sensory evaluation, how to recognize and prevent wine defects, and the state of the Indiana wine industry.
 Participants also will take a tour of the Purdue Meigs experimental vineyards and observe the many varieties of grapes that can grow in the Midwest.
 "This workshop is designed for tasting room staff and managers in the commercial wine industry, as well as people who are in the first stages of planning a tasting room," said Purdue Extension enology specialist Jill Blume.
 "We anticipate this will be a fun, knowledge-filled day." While the workshop is aimed at wine industry employees, anyone is welcome to register, Blume said.
 The workshop will be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sept. 18 at the Purdue Meigs Horticulture Facility at 9101 S. County Road 100 East, about nine miles south of Lafayette.
 Registration is $75 for the first person in a group and $25 for each additional person. The fee covers the workshop presentations, breakfast and lunch.
 The registration form can be downloaded from https://ag.purdue.edu/foodsci/extension/winegrapeteam/Lists/Calendar/Attachments/25/FallInvite13.pdf
. Casual dress is encouraged, and participants should bring a bottle of wine to share. Wine tasting is limited to participants 21 years and older.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/writers-harvest-supports-local-food-bank.html
<Content> Writers Harvest supports local food bank
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Writers Harvest, the Purdue University Creative Writing Program's annual benefit reading, will be 7:30 p.m.
 Nov. 21 at the Wells Center, 638 North Street in Lafayette. Voluntary donations of five canned goods or $8 for the general public and $5 for students are requested for this event.
 All proceeds will go directly to Food Finders Food Bank. This year's event will feature readings from Purdue creative writing faculty, including poets 
Marianne Boruch and Mary Leader and fiction writers Chinelo Okparanta and Sharon Solwitz. Food Finders Food Bank annually distributes three million pounds of food and dry goods to 175 nonprofit agencies in 18 Indiana counties, reaching thousands of hungry Hoosiers and their families.
 Donating to Food Finders allows contributions to be shared equally among all agencies and their clients. Boruch, professor of English, has written eight books of poetry, most recently "The Book of Hours.
" She has also written essay collections and a memoir, "The Glimpse Traveler." Her poems have been published in the New Yorker, the Paris Review, the Georgia Review, New England Review, and elsewhere.
 She is the recipient of fellowships from the Guggenheim Foundation and the National Endowment for the Arts, and in 2013 she won the Kingsley Tufts Poetry Award.
 Leader, professor of English, is the author of three books of poetry, most recently "Beyond the Fire." Her collection, "The Penultimate Suitor," won the 2000 Iowa Poetry Prize.
 Her poems have been published in the Beloit Poetry Journal, American Poetry Review, Southern Review, and other journals. Okparanta, a visiting assistant professor of English, is the author of the short-story collection "Happiness Like Water.
" Her stories have been published in Conjunctions, Granta, Subtropics, and elsewhere. Okparanta was named one of Granta's six New Voices for 2012, and her story "America" was short-listed for the Caine Prize for African Writing.
 Solwitz, an associate professor of English, is the author of a short-story collection, "Blood and Milk," and a novel, "Bloody Mary.
" Her short fiction has been published in Ploughshares, the Chicago Tribune, and elsewhere. Her story "Alive" was included in "The Best American Short Stories 2012.
" Contact: Michael Campbell, assistant director of the Creative Writing Program, campbe98@purdue.edu Department of English </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q1/yeast-study-yields-potential-for-new-cholesterol,-anti-fungal-drugs.html
<Content> Yeast study yields potential for new cholesterol, anti-fungal drugs
 While studying a mutant strain of yeast, Scott Briggs, at right, and Paul South may have discovered a new target for drugs that could combat cholesterol or fungal diseases.
 (Purdue Agricultural Communication photo/Tom Campbell) Download Photo WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – While studying a mutant strain of yeast, Purdue University researchers may have found a new target for drugs to combat cholesterol and fungal diseases.
 Scott Briggs, an associate professor of biochemistry, and Paul South, a postdoctoral researcher, were looking at how histones, the proteins that DNA wraps itself around, are affected by environmental factors, a field called epigenetics.
 When histones are modified, they change how genes are expressed and how cells behave. One of the research team's yeast mutants lacks a methyltransferase called Set1, which is a protein that modifies histones.
 In this case, the lack of the methyltransferase decreases the amount of ergosterol production. Ergosterol is the equivalent of human cholesterol, and the biological pathways that create ergosterol in yeast and cholesterol in humans are similar, with both being essential for cellular membrane formation and integrity.
 "So, if we could actually design an inhibitor to this methyltransferase, we potentially could have another drug to lower cellular cholesterol or one that could work in conjunction with current cholesterol-lowering drugs," said Briggs, whose findings were published in the 
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. The same yeast mutant with decreased ergosterol production was particularly sensitive to an anti-fungal metabolite called Brefeldin A, a drug primarily used as a research tool to study protein transport in cells.
 "If you don't have this methyltransferase, cells grow slower in the presence of this anti-fungal metabolite," South said. "That means that a drug that inhibits the methyltransferase could also be used as an anti-fungal drug and potentially be used as another tool to fight drug-resistant fungal infections.
" Development of new anti-fungal drugs could help with difficult-to-treat fungal infections, such as the fungal meningitis outbreak last year from contaminated drugs linked with a Massachusetts compounding pharmacy.
 Briggs and South are now studying whether the yeast mutant that is more sensitive to Brefeldin A would be more susceptible to other clinically relevant anti-fungal drugs.
 The National Institutes of Health funded the research. South was supported through several Purdue University fellowships. H3K4 Methyltransferase Set1 is Involved in Maintenance of Ergosterol Homeostasis and Resistance to Brefeldin A
 Set1 is a conserved histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) methyltransferase that exists as a multisubunit complex. Although H3K4 methylation is located on many actively transcribed genes, few studies have established a direct connection showing that loss of Set1 and H3K4 methylation results in a phenotype caused by disruption of gene expression.
 In this study, we determined that cells lacking Set1 or Set1 complex members that disrupt H3K4 methylation have a growth defect when grown in the presence of the anti-fungal drug Brefeldin A (BFA), indicating that H3K4 methylation is needed for BFA resistance.
 To determine the role of Set1 in BFA resistance, we discovered that Set1 is important for the expression of genes in the ergosterol biosynthetic pathway, including the rate-limiting enzyme HMG-CoA reductase.
 Consequently, deletion of SET1 leads to a reduction in HMG-CoA reductase protein and total cellular ergosterol. In addition, the lack of Set1 results in an increase in the expression of DAN1 and PDR11, two genes involved in ergosterol uptake.
 The increase in expression of uptake genes in set1Δ cells allows sterols such as cholesterol and ergosterol to be actively taken up under aerobic conditions.
 Interestingly, when grown in the presence of ergosterol set1Δ cells become resistant to BFA, indicating that proper ergosterol levels are needed for anti-fungal drug resistance.
 These data show that H3K4 methylation impacts gene expression and output of a biologically and medically relevant pathway and determines why cells lacking H3K4 methylation have anti-fungal drug sensitivity.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2013/Q4/yo-yo-ma,-kathryn-stott-to-perform-in-sold-out-purdue-show.html
<Content> Yo-Yo Ma, Kathryn Stott to perform in sold-out Purdue show
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. – Virtuoso cellist Yo-Yo Ma, along with longtime collaborator pianist Kathryn Stott, will perform at 3 p.m.
 Nov. 17 at Purdue University's Loeb Playhouse. This performance, which is sold out, is presented by Purdue Convocations. Cello virtuoso Yo-Yo Ma's multifaceted career is a testament to his continual search for innovative ways to communicate, and connect, with new audiences.
 From his classical base, Ma's journeys from minimalism to McFerrin, from Baroque to bluegrass and more have yielded more than 75 albums, more than 15 Grammys and status as one of the world's best-selling recording artists.
 Ma has performed for eight U.S. presidents, serves as a United Nations Messenger of Peace, and has received such prestigious awards as the Avery Fisher Prize, the National Medal of the Arts and Kennedy Center Honors.
 Joining Ma for the Purdue concert is Kathryn Stott, his collaborator of nearly 30 years, who was hailed by The Washington Post as "every bit Ma's equal, playing … with striking individuality.
" Stott, a versatile performer of standard repertoire as well as new music, also is excels at tango and other Latin dance music, reflected in her collaboration with Ma and South American musicians on the Grammy-winning album "Soul of the Tango.
" The performance will include pieces from Igor Stravinsky, Manuel de Falla, Johannes Brahms and more. The full program listed can be downloaded at 
http://www.convocations.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/Yo-Yo-Program-11-17-13-Formatted.pdf Initiated in 1902, Purdue Convocations was one of the first professional performing arts presenters in the United States.
 Each year, Convocations offers the region 20-30 performances of widely varying genres. Purdue Convocations aims to promote frequent exposure to and familiarity with human cultural expression in a multitude of forms and media.
 </Content>

http://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2012/Q4/you-can-avoid-being-scammed-in-donating-to-hurricane-sandy-victims.html
<Content> You can avoid being scammed in donating to Hurricane Sandy victims
 WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. - The many pictures and news reports of massive destruction and loss of life and property from Hurricane Sandy is triggering an urge for people to help.
 But it's important that donors know where their money is actually going, says a Purdue University cybersecurity expert. "We've seen it time and again, and con artists and scammers are continually coming up with advanced methods to take people's money through contributions - often online," says Eugene H.
 Spafford, professor and executive director of CERIAS - Purdue's Center for Education and Research in Information Assurance and Security.
 Researchers at CERIAS know that criminals will take advantage of the most tragic of circumstances, counting on people's sense of urgency to "do something" to overcome their normal caution, Spafford says.
 "Be alert to fraudulent but sincere-sounding appeals for aid from hurricane victims or from what appear to be charities," he says.
 "These solicitations may be sent as email to you or a group to which you belong, as postings or messages on a social newsgroup such as Facebook or Twitter, as a phone call from someone soliciting donations, or as a website to which you are directed or that pops up when visiting a site.
" Some of these fraudulent appeals will sound convincing, and the associated websites will appear official and legitimate. * Do not enter any information at a Web page that pops up unexpectedly when you visit some other site.
 * Never click on a website address in email sent to you; it may look official, but most will be pointers to fraud or attack sites.
 * Don't assume that every Web address returned by a search engine (e.g., Google, Bing) is a legitimate organization. * Do not respond to emails requesting donations or making a special offer (such as asking you to hold their assets).
 * Do not reveal any personal or financial information during a phone call you did not dial yourself. * If a friend forwards a URL, phone number or email, don't trust it until you check its validity.
 Your friend may have been scammed first. Spafford recommends the American Red Cross, available online at http://www.redcross.org
, as a reliable charity for domestic disaster relief. For more information, contact Spafford at 765-494-7825, or visit the CERIAS website at 
http://www.cerias.purdue.edu/ Source: Eugene Spafford, 765-494-7825, spaf@purdue.edu </Content>

